LAS VEGAS (AP) — Shea Theodore scored in the fourth round of a shootout to give the Vegas Golden Knights a 4-3 win over the New Jersey Devils on Friday night.Jonathan Marchessault had two goals and an assist, and Jack Eichel also scored for Western Conference-leading Vegas, which won for the eighth time in 11 games (8-1-2). Adin Hill had a career-high 46 saves.“Tonight was kind of a playoff-type game,” Hill said. “I’m glad we got the win. They have some good players and a lot of skill in their lineup. They’re a fast team.”Coach Bill Cassidy said the Golden Knights weren’t initially ready to handle the Devils’ speed, which showed as they were outshot 16-4 in the first period as Vegas fell behind 2-1.“Tonight we weren’t prepared to play, but Adin sure was,” Cassidy said. “It was a great performance. Good for Adin, he was really on tonight.”Dawson Mercer, Jesper Bratt and Miles Wood scored goals for New Jersey, which is 9-2-2 in its last 13 games. Akira Schmid had 25 saves.ADVERTISEMENTAfter an overtime period in which New Jersey outshot Vegas 8-0, the first seven shooters in the tiebreaker were stopped before Theodore beat Schmid for the win. Wood tied the score 3-3 with 7:07 left in the third as he converted the rebound of his own shot in front after a centering pass from Jesper Boqvist.NHLRangers, Bruins among winners at close of NHL trade deadlineArizona takes on New Jersey in a non-conference matchupSenators look to keep win streak going, host the Blue JacketsGolden Knights host the Canadiens after shootout victoryEichel had given the Golden Knights the lead 3:47 into the third as beat Schmid through the five-hole after a pass from Marchessault on a 2-on-1 rush.Marchessault got Vegas on the scoreboard first 7:48 into the game as he got his 400th career point (178 goals, 222 assists). Bratt tied it 1-1 on a power play as he got his 25th of the season with 4:44 left in the first and Mercer put the Devils ahead with 28 seconds left in the opening period as he scored for the eighth straight game.“I liked the way we started the game,” Devils coach Lindy Ruff said. “But their goalie made a couple of big saves.”Marchessault tied it 2-2 with his 19th of the season with 7:10 remaining in the second.NOTESMercer’s eight-game goal streak is the longest in the league this year. ... The Golden Knights have won eight straight games at home, with their last loss coming Jan. 19, a 3-2 defeat to Detroit. ... Knights forward William Carrier left the game near the end of the first period with what Cassidy called a “lower body injury.” Cassidy he’d have a better idea of Carrier’s status on Saturday. ... It was the Knights’ fourth overtime in their last six games. ... The Devils remained one of only two teams — along with Toronto — that hasn’t been shut out this season. ADVERTISEMENTUP NEXTDevils: At Arizona on Sunday to finish a three-game trip.Golden Knights: Host Montreal on Sunday to finish a three-game homestand.___AP NHL: https://www.apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://www.twitter.com/AP_Sports