Wake Forest guard Tyree Appleby is The Associated Press men’s basketball player of the year in the Atlantic Coast Conference, the second straight season a Demon Deacons player took the honor after Alondes Williams earned it a year ago. Pitt coach Jeff Capel was named coach of the year and Duke freshman Kyle Filipowski was named newcomer of the year in voting released Tuesday. Appleby, a 6-foot grad transfer guard from Florida, led the ACC with in scoring at 18.8 points a game and assists at 6.2 per contest. He was second in ACC steals. Appleby received seven votes for player of the year from the 15 journalists who cover the ACC. Appleby finished ahead of Miami’s Isaiah Wong (four), North Carolina’s Armando Bacot (two), and Filipowski and Clemson’s Hunter Tyson, who each received a vote. Appleby came to Wake Forest this past offseason and helped the team go 18-13 and win 10 games in ACC play. ADVERTISEMENTCapel’s future at Pitt was clearly in doubt when the season began after four straight losing seasons. But the Panthers turned things around this season, going 21-10 and 14-6 against league opponents. Pitt will be the fifth seed in this week’s ACC Tournament. Capel received 11 votes from panel while Miami coach Jim Larranaga picked up the other three. One voter abstained. College basketballThe AP Top 25 Women's Basketball PollThe Top Twenty FiveChattanooga women defeat Wofford 63-53 for SoCon titleSouth Carolina starting PG Fletcher out for SEC title gameFilipowski, the Blue Devils’ 7-foot freshman, averaged 15 points and 9.2 rebounds this season. He received nine votes from the panel with Appleby getting four and North Carolina State’s Jarkell Joiner the other two. The rest of the AP’s first team included Wake Forest’s Appleby, North Carolina’s Bacot and Duke’s Filipowski. FIRST TEAMIsaiah Wong, Miami, 6-4, 185, Jr., Piscataway, New Jersey.Tyree Appleby, Wake Forest, 6-0, 175, Gr., Jacksonville, Arkansas.Terquavion Smith, North Carolina State, 6-4, 165, So., Greenville, North Carolina. Armando Bacot, North Carolina, 6-10, 240, Sr.., Richmond, Virginia.Kyle Filipowski, Duke, 7-0, 230, Fr., Westtown, New York.SECOND TEAMNorchad Omier, Miami, 6-7, 248, So., Bluefields, Nicaragua.Jarkel Joiner, North Carolina State, 6-1, 180, Gr., Oxford, Mississippi.Hunter Tyson, Clemson, 6-8, 217, Gr., Monroe, North Carolina.Jamaruius Burton, Pitt, 6-4, 200, Gr., Charlotte, North Carolina.ADVERTISEMENTKihei Clark, Virginia, 5-10, 167, Gr., Woodland Hills, California. ___Coach of the year – Jeff Capel, PIttPlayer of the year – Tyree Appleby, Wake ForestNewcomer of the year – Kyle Filipowski, Duke___AP All-ACC voting panel: Mike Barber, The Richmond (Virginia) Times-Dispatch; Mark Berman, The Roanoke (Virginia) Times; Rick Bozich, WDRB-TV, Louisville, Kentucky; C.L. Brown, The (Raleigh) News & Observer, North Carolina; Jordan Crammer, WNCN CBS 17, Raleigh, North Carolina; Donna Ditota, The Post-Standard of Syracuse, New York; Jerry DiPaola, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Chapel Fowler, The State of Columbia, South Carolina; Ehsan Kassim, Tallahassee Democrat, Tallahassee, Florida; Michelle Kaufman, Miami Herald; Kevin McNamara, WPRO, Providence, Rhode Island; Tom Noie, South Bend (Indiana) Tribune; Ken Sugiura, Atlanta Journal-Constitution; Lauren Walsh, WXII-TV, Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Steve Wiseman, The Herald-Sun of Durham, North Carolina.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25