TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) — Sebastian Aho scored twice, Shayne Gostisbehere had a power-play goal against his former team and the Carolina Hurricanes beat the Arizona Coyotes 6-1 on Friday night.Paul Stastny, Jaccob Slavin and Martin Necas also scored for Carolina. Brent Burns had four assists and Necas and Andrei Svechnikov tallied two each. Antti Ranta had 17 saves as the Hurricanes got their 40th win of the season to give them 88 points and keep their narrow lead over New Jersey in the Metropolitan Division.Lawson Crouse scored his 20th goal for the Coyotes and trails only Clayton Keller (25) for the team lead. Karel Vejmelka finished with 36 saves.GOLDEN KNIGHTS 4, DEVILS 3LAS VEGAS (AP) — Shea Theodore scored in the fourth round of a shootout to lift Vegas.Jonathan Marchessault had two goals and an assist, and Jack Eichel also scored for the Western Conference-leading Golden Knights, who won for the eighth time in 11 games (8-1-2). Adin Hill had a career-high 46 saves.ADVERTISEMENTDawson Mercer, Jesper Bratt and Miles Wood scored goals for New Jersey, which is 9-2-2 in its last 13 games. Akira Schmid had 25 saves.After an overtime period in which New Jersey outshot Vegas 8-0, the first seven shooters in the tiebreaker were stopped before Theodore beat Schmid for the win. NHLRangers, Bruins among winners at close of NHL trade deadlineArizona takes on New Jersey in a non-conference matchupSenators look to keep win streak going, host the Blue JacketsGolden Knights host the Canadiens after shootout victoryDUCKS 3, CANADIENS 2ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Mason McTavish and Jakob Silfverberg scored power-play goals in the third period and Anaheim extended its point streak to five games.Jayson Megna also scored for the Ducks, who are 4-0-1 during their streak. John Gibson stopped 26 shots.Jonathan Drouin had a goal and an assist while Nick Suzuki also scored for Montreal. Sam Montembeault made 30 saves. The Canadiens have dropped two straight and three of their last four.OILERS 6, JETS 3EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Ryan Nugent-Hopkins had two goals and two assists as Edmonton won its second straight.Leon Draisaitl and Kailer Yamamoto each had two goals and an assist, and Connor McDavid had three assists for his sixth straight multi point game for the Oilers. Stuart Skinner finished with 25 saves for his second straight win.McDavid has 10 goals and nine assists in the last six games, and 24 points during a nine-game point streak.ADVERTISEMENTAxel Jonsson Fjallby had a goal and an assist, and Mark Scheifele and Brendan Dillon also scored for the Jets, who lost their fifth straight (0-4-1) and seventh in the last eight (1-6-1). Connor Hellebuyck gave up four goals on 24 shots through two periods, and David Rittich had seven saves in the third.KRAKEN 4, BLUE JACKETS 2COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Alex Wennberg and Jared McCann each had a goal and an assist, and Seattle got its third straight road win.Joran Eberle and Brandon Tanev also scored for the Kraken, and Vince Dunn had two assists. Philipp Grubauer stopped 23 shots as Seattle stayed ahead of Edmonton for third place in the Pacific Division — two points behind Los Angeles and Vegas.Adam Boqvist and Patrik Laine each had a goal and an assist for Columbus, which has lost two of its last three games and remains in the NHL basement. Elvis Merzlikins stopped 34 shots. ___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports