SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) — Drew Timme scored 17 points in what’s expected to be his final home game at Gonzaga, and the 10th-ranked Bulldogs trounced Chicago State 104-65 in a postseason tune-up Wednesday night.Timme was greeted perhaps one last time by the Kennel crowd as he made his 99th start at Gonzaga. The senior forward ranks second on the school’s career scoring list, 21 points behind Frank Burgess (1958-61).“It hasn’t really hit me yet,” Timme said. “But it was pretty special, all the love and support. This place has been a great second home to me. When I first showed up I didn’t want to like it, but I ended up loving it.”The 6-foot-10 Timme has played four seasons at Gonzaga but could return for a fifth because of extra eligibility granted by the NCAA due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He has not announced any definitive plans.Fellow senior Rasir Bolton added 15 points for the Zags (26-5), who won their seventh straight game. Malachi Smith scored 14. ADVERTISEMENT“Just an overwhelmingly great group of people. All of them have their own personalities. They’ve all contributed so much,” coach Mark Few said. Jahsean Corbett led Chicago State (11-19) with 22 points and seven rebounds. Wesley Cardet scored 16.College basketballIowa State dismisses Grill for failing to meet expectationsNo. 8 Arizona's Ballo finds balance in basketball and lifeUSC, Oklahoma, Seton Hall, Iowa in new San Diego tourneyWillard's Terrapins on the rise after stellar home seasonGonzaga added the game to avoid going more than a week without playing before the West Coast Conference Tournament in Las Vegas. The Zags are the No. 2 seed and will play in the semifinals next Monday, seeking their fourth straight WCC Tournament title.The game featured six early lead changes, but with 13:10 left in the first half Hunter Sallis threw down a ferocious one-handed slam to spark a 20-2 run for Gonzaga over the next eight minutes.Chicago State cut the deficit in half with a 15-6 spurt, but Bolton knocked down a deep 3-pointer in the closing seconds and Gonzaga led 42-28 at halftime.The Cougars couldn’t keep pace in the second half as they were outscored 62-37.BIG PICTURESeven players reached double figures for Gonzaga and nine scored in all as the Bulldogs used an 11-man rotation in preparation for the upcoming WCC Tournament.Chicago State had won six of seven, earning its most wins in a season since 2013-2014. It was the first matchup with Gonzaga in program history. UP NEXTChicago State plays at Fresno State on Saturday.Gonzaga plays in the WCC semifinals Monday.___AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25