ROME (AP) — Intelligence reports indicate nearly 700,000 migrants are in Libya awaiting an opportunity to set out by sea toward Italy, a lawmaker from Premier Giorgia Meloni’s far-right party said Sunday.Tommaso Foti, the lower parliamentary house whip for the Brothers of Italy Party, told television channel Tgcom24 the Italian secret services estimate there are 685,000 migrants, many of them in Libyan detention camps, who are eager to sail across the central Mediterranean Sea in smugglers’ boats.Some 105,000 migrants reached Italy by sea in 2022. From the start of this year through March 10, some 17,600 arrived, including a few thousand who disembarked at Italian ports in the last several days. That’s about triple the number for the same time period in each of the two previous years, although the COVID-19 pandemic might have led to fewer voyages. Italy’s coast guard said it rescued more than 1,000 migrants off the country’s southern mainland in recent days. Hundreds more reached the tiny Italian island of Lampedusa, south of Sicily, after setting off from Tunisia, according to authorities. ADVERTISEMENTWith the island struggling to care for so many people arriving within a short time, authorities have transferred hundreds of them by boat and aircraft to other temporary shelters for asylum-seekers. MigrationItaly to raise penalties for smugglers after migrant tragedy14 dead, 54 rescued off Tunisia in migrant boat sinkingEurope struggles to make progress in migration quagmireLineker's attack on UK migrant policy puts BBC in a bindOn Sunday, three more bodies were found from a Feb. 26 shipwreck just offshore the Italian peninsula, raising the known death toll in that disaster to 79 migrants, Italian state TV said. A wooden boat that had sailed from Turkey ran into sandbank in rough seas off a beach in Calabria, the toe of the Italian peninsula.There were 80 survivors, and an undetermined number of people were believed to be missing and presumed dead. Meloni’s government has rebuffed criticism that the coast guard should have been sent out to rescue the boat’s passengers when the vessel first was spotted farther off the coast. The premier is hoping a European Union meeting later this month yields concrete solidarity from fellow leaders of EU nations in managing the large numbers of migrants and asylum-seekers who come to countries on the Mediterranean’s rim, including Greece, Cyprus, Malta and Spain as well as Italy.ADVERTISEMENT“Europe can’t look the other way,″ Foti said.For years, Italy has tried with limited success to induce Libya to stop launches of people smugglers’ unseaworthy fishing boats and rubber dinghies toward Italian shores. Italian governments have trained and equipped the Libyan coast guard. But the traffickers behind the smuggling rings continue to operate amid Libya’s amid feuding political and militant factions. Officials from the U.N.’s migration agency and humanitarian groups say passengers whose vessels are turned back by the Libyan coast guard often are returned to detention camps, where they are at risk of abuse, including torture, until their families raise enough money for the migrants to set out again by sea.Meloni’s government has made it harder for humanitarian organizations that operate rescue boats to carry out many rescues in the waters off Libya, adopting rules that force the vessels to disembark migrants in northern Italian ports, delaying their return to sea. ___Follow AP’s coverage of global migration at https://apnews.com/hub/migration