PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Vladimir Tarasenko scored the winner 2:32 into overtime, and had assists on goals by Mika Zibanejad and Chris Kreider to lead the New York Rangers past the Philadelphia Flyers 3-2 on Wednesday night.The Rangers won their final game before Patrick Kane, acquired Tuesday in a trade with the Chicago Blackhawks, makes his debut for the team on Thursday night at Madison Square Garden. Rangers fans took over the lower bowl of the Wells Fargo Center and had a healthy and vocal presence overall inside the arena. Flyers fans were thwarted in their attempt to drown out the “Let’s Go Rangers!” chants that echoed throughout the arena and Rangers fans erupted when Kreider tied the score with 9:27 left in the game.Owen Tippett and Scott Laughton scored for the Flyers. Carter Hart had 22 saves.Igor Shesterkin stopped 25 shots for the Rangers.OILERS 5, MAPLE LEAFS 2EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Connor McDavid had two goals and an assist, and Edmonton won for the third time in five games. ADVERTISEMENTZach Hyman and Klim Kostin each had a goal and an assist, and Kailer Yamamoto also scored for the Oilers. Stuart Skinner had 26 saves.Mitchell Marner had a goal and an assist, and David Kampf also scored for the Maple Leafs, who had won five of their previous six games. Ilya Samsonov stopped 27 shots.NHLMcDavid has 2 goals, assist as Oilers beat Maple Leafs 5-2Mercer has goal, 3 assists as Devils beat Avalanche 7-5Heiskanen ends drought, Seguin nets 2 as Stars top CoyotesTarasenko scores winner in OT, leads Rangers past Flyers 3-2DEVILS 7, AVALANCHE 5DENVER (AP) — Dawson Mercer had a goal and three assists, and Tomas Tatar had a goal and two assists to lead New Jersey.Nico Hischier and Miles Wood each had a goal and an assist, and Nathan Bastian, Ondrej Palat and Dougie Hamilton also scored for the Devils. Vitek Vanecek had 14 saves before being replaced early in the third period after giving up five goals. Akira Schmid came on and stopped all 12 shots he faced.Mercer has scored a goal in seven straight games and has 10 overall in that span.Nathan MacKinnon had two goals to extend his points streak to nine games and Mikko Rantanen scored his 41st of the season for Colorado. Valeri Nichushkin and J.T. Compher also scored, and Artturi Lehkonen had two assists. Justus Annunen finished with 22 saves.STARS 4, COYOTES 2DALLAS (AP) — Defenseman Miro Heiskanen ended a 19-game goal drought early in the third period as Dallas rallied from a two-goal deficit to beat Arizona. ADVERTISEMENTTyler Seguin had two goals and an assist and Roope Hintz also scored for the Stars. Jake Oettinger made 18 saves.Clayton Keller and Barrett Hayton scored for the Coyotes, who finished a back-to-back after beating Chicago at home on Tuesday night. Connor Ingram stopped 37 shots.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports