INDIANAPOLIS (AP) — Joel Embiid kept making shots and James Harden kept finding open teammates.The combination was all but unstoppable.Embiid scored 42 points, Harden added 20 assists, 14 points and nine rebounds, and the Philadelphia 76ers broke open a close game with a decisive fourth-quarter run to beat the Indiana Pacers 147-143 on Monday night.“When you have a guy like Joel and a guy like James, it’s hard to stop them,” Pacers guard T.J. McConnell said.Actually, it was almost impossible in a wildly entertaining game that was virtually devoid of defense. Both teams put up numbers more closely resembling those of an All-Star Game.Embiid went 11 of 16 from the field, made all 19 free-throw attempts and posted his 11th 40-point game this season. The 76ers shot 58.5%, had six players in double figures and three with 20 or more points — Tyrese Maxey scored 24 and Jalen McDaniels had 20.ADVERTISEMENTThe Pacers shot 58.9% with seven players in double figures — led by Tyrese Haliburton with 40 points and 16 assists — in just their second home game since Feb. 16. Jordan Nwora added 16 points.But one two-minute lapse was all Philadelphia needed.“It was an offensive game,” 76ers coach Doc Rivers said. “But at the same time someone had to make a defensive stand and we did that enough to win the game.”NBAJames leads Los Angeles into matchup with MemphisChicago visits Denver after LaVine's 42-point performanceToronto visits Los Angeles after George's 42-point gameEmbiid leads Philadelphia against Minnesota after 42-point outingWith Philadelphia shooting 62.5% overall and from 3-point range through the first half and the Pacers sitting at 61.1% from the field over the same span, nobody could take control.Neither team led by more than six through the first three quarters. Early in the fourth, Shake Milton and De’Anthony Melton made consecutive baskets to give the 76ers a 122-118 lead. Danuel House Jr. followed with a 3-pointer, and Milton closed out the 10-0 run with another 3 to make it 128-118 with 7:49 to play.Indiana closed within 141-137 with 52.1 seconds to go but couldn’t get any closer.“When they’re clicking like that, they’re a hard team to beat,” Haliburton said. “The game came down to who could get the most stops in a row. Usually, it’s three in a row. Tonight, it was more like two in a row.”TIP-INS76ers: Embiid scored 40 points or more for the 11th time this season. ... Harden recorded his 74th career double-double. ... Maxey went 8 of 13 from the field and now has 1,007 career baskets. He made six 3s. ... Philadelphia has won two straight without Tobias Harris (bruised left calf) and P.J. Tucker (back spasms). ADVERTISEMENTPacers: Lost for the second time in five games. ... Indiana fell to 0-3 in the season series and hosts Philadelphia one more time this month. ... Haliburton made five 3s and made 12 of 19 shots ... Buddy Hield had 15 points, eight rebounds and four 3s. ... McConnell had 12 points, five rebounds, four assists and three steals.THE BUZZHaliburton nearly pulled off a rare double in the first half. He finished both quarters by sinking shots at the buzzer, but only the second one counted. He made a 32-footer at the end of the half, confirmed by replay review, to give Indiana a 79-78 lead. His half-court shot at the end of the first period came after time expired. A replay review also confirmed that call. Haliburton also made a 31-footer with 0.2 seconds left in the fourth quarter.ADVERTISEMENTMOMENT OF SILENCEIndiana honored David Benner, its longtime director of media relations, with a moment of silence before the game. Benner died last week at age 67 following a long illness. He joined the Pacers in 1994 after covering the team, Notre Dame football and Indiana University basketball for The Indianapolis Star. A memorial service at Gainbridge Fieldhouse is scheduled for Wednesday morning.STARSTRUCKActor Will Ferrell and rapper, actor and television producer Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson sat courtside. Indiana honored the crew of the USS Indiana between the first and second quarters.UP NEXT76ers: Complete a five-game trip Tuesday at Minnesota.Pacers: Host Houston on Thursday.___AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports