BOSTON (AP) — Tyler Bertuzzi set up a goal in his Boston debut and Linus Ullmark made 24 saves, helping the NHL-leading Bruins beat Patrick Kane and the New York Rangers 4-2 on Saturday.Charlie Coyle scored off Bertuzzi’s feed and set up Tomas Nosek’s short-handed goal in Boston’s 10th straight win. The Bruins improved 26-2-3 at home.Boston stars David Pastrnak and Patrice Bergeron each scored in the third period. It was Pastrnak’s 44th on the season, and No. 23 for Bergeron.Alexis Lafreniere scored both goals for New York, and Igor Shesterkin stopped 20 shots. The Rangers have lost six of eight.Kane, acquired in a trade with Chicago on Tuesday, is scoreless in two games with the Rangers.Bertuzzi came over in a trade with Detroit on Thursday.CAPITALS 8, SHARKS 3SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) — Alex Ovechkin scored twice in the third period to give him 815 career goals, helping the Capitals shake off a rough start.ADVERTISEMENTWashington erased a 2-0 deficit by scoring four goals in the final 12 minutes of the second period.Craig Smith scored twice, and Nicolas Aube-Kubel and Matt Irwin also scored in the big second period for Washington.T.J. Oshie and Dylan Strome scored in the third period around Ovechkin’s two tallies that moved him within 79 goals of tying Wayne Gretzky’s career record.NHLAlex Ovechkin scores twice in Capitals' 8-3 win over SharksBobrovsky makes 31 saves as Panthers beat Penguins 4-1Marchment, Pavelski end droughts as Stars dominate Avs 7-3Thompson, Quinn score as Sabres beat slumping Lightning 5-3Tomas Hertl, Alexander Barabanov and Nico Sturm scored for San Jose.PANTHERS 4, PENGUINS 1SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — Sergei Bobrovsky made 31 saves, Sam Bennett scored in his return to the lineup and Florida stopped Pittsburgh’s four-game win streak.Bennett missed six games with a lower-body injury. Aleksander Barkov had two assists for Florida after he was sidelined for three games with a hand injury.Aaron Ekblad, Eetu Luostarinen and Carter Verhaeghe also scored as the Panthers improved to 1-1 on a seven-game homestand.Kris Letang scored for Pittsburgh, and Casey DeSmith made 38 saves.The Penguins (31-22-9) lead the Panthers (31-27-6) by three points in the race for the second wild card in the Eastern Conference.STARS 7, AVALANCHE 3DALLAS (AP) — Mason Marchment and Joe Pavelski ended career-long goal droughts, sending Dallas to the victory.Jason Robertson had two goals, including an empty-netter, for the Stars, who are 4-0-1 in their last five games. Miro Heiskanen, Radek Faksa and Wyatt Johnston also scored, and Jake Oettinger made 32 saves.ADVERTISEMENTSamuel Girard had a goal and two assists for the Avalanche. Andrew Cogliano and Evan Rodrigues also scored.Marchment went 32 games without a goal after tallying an empty-netter on Dec. 13. Pavelski ended an 18-game drought.SABRES 5, LIGHTNING 3BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Rookie Jack Quinn scored during Buffalo’s three-goal second period.Tage Thompson, Jeff Skinner, Tyson Jost and Vinnie Hinostroza also scored for Buffalo (32-25-4), which matched its win total from last year. Eric Comrie stopped 33 shots.The Sabres were coming off consecutive losses to Columbus and Boston by a combined 12-4 score.The Lightning dropped to 0-3-1 in their past four to mark the team’s longest skid since losing four straight a year ago.ADVERTISEMENTAlex Killorn scored twice for the Lightning, and Brian Elliott stopped 29 shots. Brayden Point also scored.ISLANDERS 4, RED WINGS 1NEW YORK (AP) — Anders Lee scored two of New York’s four third-period goals, helping the Islanders to the victory.New York improved to 5-2-1 in its last eight games and remained in position for one of two Eastern Conference wild cards. Zach Parise and Kyle Palmieri also scored, and Ilya Sorokin made 22 saves.Detroit dropped its fifth straight game. Dylan Larkin scored for the sliding Red Wings, and Magnus Hellberg finished with 32 stops.New York went ahead to stay when Parise and Lee scored early in the third.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports