VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — Andrei Kuzmenko scored twice and the Vancouver Canucks beat the Ottawa Senators 5-2 on Saturday night for their season-high fourth straight victory.J.T. Miller, Nils Aman and Sheldon Dries also scored for Vancouver, and Thatcher Demko made 18 saves.“We can definitely feel it in the room. I think there’s a buy-in that’s going on right now,” Demko said. “That’s just playing the right way. It’s contagious when everyone’s doing it and it looks good.”Claude Giroux and Nick Holden had third-period goals for Ottawa. Mads Sogaard made 25 saves in the Senators’ second straight loss.“It’s frustrating. I didn’t think we played that bad,” Giroux said. “We did a lot of good things but kind of a weird game, to be honest. You think you’re playing a pretty good and then you’re down 4-0. So definitely frustrating.”Kuzmenko opened the scoring for Vancouver with 4:45 left in the first period. He also had the final goal of the game, scoring a power-play goal into an empty net with 15 seconds to go for his 32nd goal of the season.ADVERTISEMENTMiller and Aman scored in the second period, with Miller making it 2-0 with a short-handed goal at 4:26 and Aman striking with 9:33 to go.Dries scored at 6:50 of the third for a 4-0 lead.NHLBlues host the Golden Knights after Kyrou's hat trickAtlantic Division-leading Boston visits DetroitJets visit the Lightning after Namestnikov's 2-goal gameDallas visits Seattle after shootout victoryGiroux ended Demko’s shutout bid with 6:21 to go with his 28th of the season. Holden connected with 4:16 left.Vancouver allowed only 20 shots.“It means everybody’s gapping up and the defense are trusting the forwards that they’re backing the defensemen up,” Canucks coach Rick Tocchet said. “It’s a lot of different trust factors. You can’t play this game if you don’t trust your teammates, and that’s something we’ve really worked on the last six weeks is trust.”UP NEXTSenators: At Calgary on Sunday night in the fourth of a five-game trip.Canucks: Host Dallas on Tuesday night to finish a six-game homestand.___AP NHL: https://www.apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://www.twitter.com/AP_Sports