CBS Sports will expand its soccer offerings when it launches a free digital channel devoted to the sport on April 11.The “CBS Sports Golazo Network” will be anchored by a morning news show and will carry matches, highlights and magazine shows. The channel will stream on CBS Sports digital platforms as well as Paramount+ and Pluto TV.Jeff Gerttula, executive vice president for CBS Sports and CBS News and Stations, said the channel will help fill a void for fans.“We believe that there’s clear market need and demand for more soccer coverage. The audience continues to grow. It’s young, hungry and passionate. And there’s really no kind of turn on and leave on answer for soccer fans,” he said.“Morning Footy” will air weekdays from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. It will be hosted by Susannah Collins along with former U.S. men’s team player Charlie Davies, Nico Cantor, Alexis Guerreros and Jenny Chiu. The show will feature news from all men’s and women’s leagues.ADVERTISEMENTThe channel will also feature matches from the 10 soccer properties owned by CBS, including the UEFA Champions League, Italy’s Serie A and the National Women’s Soccer League.CBS and Paramount+ also have the UEFA Europa League, UEFA Europa Conference League, Barclays Women’s Super League, CONCACAF national team competitions as well as the top leagues from Scotland, Argentina and Brazil.TechnologyCongress members warned of significant health data breachFrom marketing to design, brands adopt AI tools despite riskFTC probes Twitter data practices after Elon Musk's layoffsJapan's Nissan slashing EV costs, cuts rare materials useThe channel will launch as CBS is in the midst of setting viewing records for its Champions League coverage. The Feb. 22-23 matches between Liverpool-Real Madrid (946,000 viewers) and RB Leipzig-Manchester City (892,000 viewers) were the top two most-watched Round of 16 matches for English-language viewing in the U.S. The Liverpool-Real Madrid match was also the most-streamed Round of 16 match on Paramount+.___AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports