WASHINGTON (AP) — Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell was hospitalized after he tripped and fell at a local hotel, where he attended a private dinner.The Kentucky senator, 81, was at a dinner for the Senate Leadership Fund, a campaign committee aligned with him, when he tripped Wednesday evening. He was admitted to a hospital for treatment, spokesman Doug Andres said. The dinner was at the Waldorf Astoria Washington DC, formerly the Trump International Hotel, Washington D.C.McConnell’s office did not provide additional detail on his condition or how long he may be absent from the Senate. The No. 2 Republican, Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, was at the dinner and told reporters that McConnell had delivered remarks “as usual.” “Evidently it happened later in the evening,” said Thune, who had moved on to another reception underway at the hotel and did not see McConnell trip and fall.Thune told reporters Thursday at the Capitol he has not yet spoken to McConnell.ADVERTISEMENT“We have very limited information,” Thune said. “I’m sure we’ll get more.”In 2019, the GOP leader tripped and fell at his home in Kentucky, suffering a shoulder fracture. At the time, he underwent surgery to repair the fracture in his shoulder. The Senate had just started a summer recess, and he worked from home for some weeks as he recovered.First elected in 1984, McConnell in January became the longest-serving Senate leader when the new Congress convened, breaking the previous record of 16 years.The taciturn McConnell is often reluctant to discuss his private life. But at the start of the COVID-19 crisis he opened up about his early childhood experience fighting polio. He described how his mother insisted that he stay off his feet as a toddler and worked with him through a determined physical therapy regime. He has acknowledged some difficulty in adulthood climbing stairs.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said on the Senate floor Thursday morning that he had called McConnell and spoken with his staff “to extend my prayers and well wishes.”“I joined every single one of my colleagues in wishing Leader McConnell a speedy and full recovery,” Schumer said.The Senate, where the average age is 65, has been without several members recently due to illness.Sen. John Fetterman, D-Pa., 53, who suffered a stroke during his campaign last year, was expected to remain out for some weeks as he received care for clinical depression. And Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., 89, said last week that she had been hospitalized to be treated for shingles.PoliticsBudget highlights Biden's 'values' as he eyes 2024 campaignBiden budget with deficit cuts, tax hikes won't fly with GOPBiden to seek more than $2.8B from Congress for cancer fightMedicaid coverage for new moms gaining support in GOP statesThe Democratic absences have proven a challenge for Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who is already navigating a very narrow 51-49 majority. The Republicans, as the minority party, have had an easier time with intermittent absences. It is unclear if McConnell will be out on Thursday and if that would have an effect on scheduled votes. ——-This story has been corrected to show that Sen. Dianne Feinstein is 89, not 90.