KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) — Three Kansas City police officers were shot and wounded while searching a suspected drug house, prompting a standoff that ended about 18 hours later with the discovery of a body, authorities said Wednesday.Missouri, patrol spokesman Sgt. Bill Lowe said the SWAT team entered around 3:30 p.m., finding the body and an uninjured woman. She has been taken into custody, along with two others who surrendered from the home hours earlier. One of those who surrendered, 50-year-old Jimmie Lewis Jr., was charged Wednesday with meth-dealing and two other federal counts stemming from a November 2021 police pursuit. No charges were immediately filed in the shooting. And the names of the other two suspects weren’t immediately released, Lowe said. Identification of the slain man and his cause of death also wasn’t released, pending an autopsy and notification of his relatives. ADVERTISEMENTIt all started around 9:30 p.m. Tuesday when tactical response team officers forced entry into the house and were fired upon, Kansas City police Chief Stacey Graves told reporters outside a hospital.The officers shot back. They were taken to the hospital, where they were in non-life-threatening condition, Graves said.Kansas CityMarch Madness 2023: Bubble teams at women's league tourneysMarch Madness 2023: Bubble watch as season draws to a closeKimberly Palmer: 5 ways to deal with money envyMan who claims he was set up to be released on parole soonLewis surrendered late Tuesday and another suspect early Wednesday. But Lowe said law enforcement waited to enter the home until they could get robotics inside to determine it was safe. The case started as a federal drug investigation. The patrol said the Jackson County Drug Task Force, which works with federal agencies, requested the assistance of the Kansas City SWAT team to serve the search warrant.The officers had announced that they were police before trying to enter the home, Graves said.“They are highly trained, good men,” Graves said of the wounded officers. “And, you know, we’re just so thankful tonight that each one of them, I was able to to physically talk to them.”According to an affidavit filed against Lewis in the unrelated federal case, he fled from Independence police after he was spotted driving a pickup truck that matched the description of a stolen vehicle. He reached speeds of more than 100 mph and ran stop signs before he struck a curb and flattened a tire, the affidavit said. Lewis then fled on foot but was apprehended with $2,084 in his pocket. ADVERTISEMENTInside his backpack, officers found a loaded handgun and nine plastic bags filled with methamphetamine. More meth was found under the passenger seat of the truck, the affidavit said.Lewis is charged with one count each of possessing methamphetamine with the intent to distribute, possessing a firearm in furtherance of a drug-trafficking crime and being a felon in possession of a firearm.Federal prosecutors said in a news release that he has multiple prior felony convictions.