1 of 3This image provided by the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, shows a missing persons flyer for 4-year-old Athena Brownfield, who authorities say has been missing since Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2023. Authorities have arrested two people in connection with the girl's disappearance while they continued searching for her Friday, Jan. 13, 2023. (Oklahoma Highway Patrol via AP)1 of 3This image provided by the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, shows a missing persons flyer for 4-year-old Athena Brownfield, who authorities say has been missing since Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2023. Authorities have arrested two people in connection with the girl's disappearance while they continued searching for her Friday, Jan. 13, 2023. (Oklahoma Highway Patrol via AP)OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) — Two people have now been arrested in connection with the disappearance of Athena Brownfield, a 4-year-old Oklahoma girl whose 5-year-old sister was discovered wandering alone outside by a postal worker, state investigators said Friday.Arizona authorities arrested 36-year-old Ivon Adams on Thursday, and he is being held in the Maricopa County jail in Phoenix pending extradition to Oklahoma, the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation said in a news release.Authorities earlier arrested Alysia Adams, 31, on two counts of child neglect, the bureau said in a statement late Thursday. Alysia Adams, who the OSBI said is married to Ivon Adams, remained jailed in Oklahoma’s Caddo County on Friday.The bureau released no further details about the arrests or what the suspects’ relationship is. It was not known if either Adams had an attorney to comment on their behalf.A bureau spokesperson did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment Friday. The arrests are related to the search for Athena, who was reported missing Tuesday in Cyril, about 70 miles (110 kilometers) southwest of Oklahoma City, the bureau said.ADVERTISEMENTThe postal carrier found Athena’s sister wandering alone outside Adams’ home Monday afternoon and alerted Cyril police. Authorities then determined that Athena was missing.ArizonaGonzaga edges BYU on late 3 by StrawtherTubelis lifts No. 9 Arizona to 86-74 win over Oregon StateSenators extend Coyotes' losing streak to 7 gamesBalanced Arizona State jumps out early, routs Oregon 90-73The girls had been in the care of Adams and her husband, and Athena’s sister was taken into protective custody, the bureau said Wednesday.Authorities said they believe Athena was wearing a hoodie with a butterfly design when she disappeared.The bureau said it was working with other law enforcement agencies and volunteers in the search, which included a helicopter, boats, all-terrain vehicles, a specially trained ground team, and a review of surveillance video from around Cyril. The city of Cyril has also suspended trash service as investigators search for clues.The bureau said agents were following up on tips coming from Oklahoma and other states.