BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Samuel Ersson made 28 saves for his first NHL shutout, Joel Farabee had a goal and an assist, and the Philadelphia Flyers beat the Buffalo Sabres 4-0 on Monday night.Ersson, making his fifth career start, helped the Flyers get their fifth win in six games. Farabee’s goal and assist came 1:27 apart in the first period. After Zack MacEwen opened the scoring early in the first, Farabee’s goal gave Philadelphia a 2-0 lead. He then helped set up a goal from Noah Cates that made it 3-0. Wade Allison scored about 2 minutes into the third period. Craig Anderson made 34 saves for Buffalo, which was shut out for the first time this season and lost for just the second time in the past 10 games.KRAKEN 4, CANADIENS 0MONTREAL (AP) — Vince Dunn and Eeli Tolvanen each had a goal and an assist, Martin Jones stopped 21 shots for his second shutout of the season and Seattle got its fifth straight win.ADVERTISEMENTDaniel Sprong and Matty Beniers also scored, and Yanni Gourde had two assists in his return to his home province of Quebec. The Kraken have outscored opponents 26-8 during their win streak.Jones had six saves in the first period, nine in the second and six in the third to get his 27th career shutout.NHLCapitals bring road win streak into game against the FlyersJones gets 27th career shutout, Kraken beat Canadiens 4-0Saros makes 38 saves vs Senators, Predators win 4th straightErsson gets first career NHL shutout as Flyers beat SabresSamuel Montembeault had 37 saves for Montreal, which snapped a seven-game skid with a 5-4 win against St. Louis on Saturday.PREDATORS 3, SENATORS 0OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Filip Forsberg had a goal and an assist and Nashville won its fourth straight.Juuse Saros made 38 saves for his first shutout of the season and the 18th of his NHL career. He has stopped 102 of the 105 shots he’s faced in the last two games — following a 64-save performance Thursday in a 5-3 win over Carolina. Roman Josi and Jeremy Lauzon also scored for the Predators.Cam Talbot made 30 saves for the Senators, who have now lost two straight.KINGS 6, OILERS 3LOS ANGELES (AP) — Kevin Fiala had two goals and two assists, Adrian Kempe also scored two power-play goals and Los Angeles beat Edmonton.Alex Iafallo and Viktor Arvidsson also scored as Los Angeles improved to 9-2-1 since Dec. 15. Pheonix Copley had 28 saves as he improved to 11-2-0 in 13 starts — all since Dec. 6. Fiala had his sixth game with at least three points this season and second consecutive. It was the first time in Kings history two players scored multiple power-play goals in a game.ADVERTISEMENTKailer Yamamoto, Ryan McLeod and Connor McDavid scored for the Oilers in the opener of a four-game road trip. Stuart Skinner was bombarded for three goals on 24 shots before he was replaced early in the second period by former Kings goalie Jack Campbell.___AP NHL: https://www.apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://www.twitter.com/AP_Sports