ISLAMABAD (AP) — Most of Pakistan was left without power Monday as an energy-saving measure by the government backfired. The outage spread panic and raised questions about the cash-strapped government’s handling of the country’s economic crisis. It all started when electricity was turned off during low usage hours overnight to conserve fuel across the country, officials said, leaving technicians unable to boot up the system all at once after daybreak. The outage was reminiscent of a massive blackout in January 2021, attributed at the time to a technical fault in Pakistan’s power generation and distribution system. Many major cities, including the capital of Islamabad, and remote towns and villages across Pakistan were without electricity for more than 12 hours before engineers partially restored power across much of the country. As the outage continued into Monday night, authorities deployed additional police at markets around the country to provide security.ADVERTISEMENTEarlier, the nationwide electricity breakdown left many in this country of some 220 million people without drinking water as pumps powered by electricity failed to work. Schools, hospitals, factories and shops were without power amid the harsh winter weather.PakistanICC rescinds demerit point given to Pindi Cricket StadiumPakistan appoints Haroon Rasheed as chief selectorPakistan acquits all policemen in killing of aspiring modelAshleigh Gardner faults Australia Day match vs. PakistanEnergy Minister Khurram Dastgir told local media Monday that engineers were working to restore power across the country and tried to reassure the nation that power would be fully restored within the next 12 hours.According to the minister, electricity usage typically goes down overnight during winter — unlike summer months when Pakistanis turn to air conditioning, seeking a respite from the heat. “As an economic measure, we temporarily shut down our power generation systems” Sunday night, Dastgir said. When engineers tried to turn the systems back on, a “fluctuation in voltage” was observed, which “forced engineers to shut down the power grid” stations one by one. Dastgir insisted the outage did not constitute a major crisis and that electricity was being restored in phases. In many places and key businesses and institutions, including hospitals, military and government facilities, backup generators kicked in. By late afternoon Monday, Dastgir told reporters at another press conference that Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif ordered a probe into the outage. ADVERTISEMENT“We are hoping that the supply of electricity will be fully restored tonight,” he said.Karachi, the country’s largest city and economic hub, was without power as were other key cities, such as Quetta, Peshawar and Lahore.In Lahore, a closing notice was posted on the Orange Line metro stations, with rail workers guarding the sites and trains parked on the rails. It was unknown when the metro system would be restored. Imran Rana, a spokesperson for Karachi’s power supply company, said the government’s priority was to restore power to strategic facilities, including hospitals and airports. Internet-access advocacy group NetBlocks.org said network data showed a significant decline in internet access in Pakistan that was attributed to the power outage. It said metrics indicated that connectivity was at 60% of ordinary levels as many users struggled to get online Monday.ADVERTISEMENTPakistan gets at least 60% of its electricity from fossil fuels, while nearly 27% of the electricity is generated by hydropower. The contribution of nuclear and solar power to the nation’s grid is about 10%.Pakistan is grappling with one of the country’s worst economic crisis in recent years amid dwindling foreign exchange reserves. That has compelled the government to order shopping malls and markets closed by 8:30 p.m. to conserve energy. Talks are underway with the International Monetary Fund to soften some conditions on Pakistan’s $6 billion bailout, which the government thinks will trigger further inflation hikes. The IMF released the last crucial tranche of $1.1 billion to Islamabad in August.Since then, discussions between the two parties have oscillated due to Pakistan’s reluctance to impose new tax measures.___Associated Press writer Jon Gambrell in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, contributed to this report.