BOSTON (AP) — Matt Grzelcyk scored the tiebreaking goal with 1:16 left to give Boston a 4-3 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Saturday night and prevent the Bruins from losing back-to-back games for the first time all season.Toronto led 1-0 and 2-1 before Boston took its first lead at 3-2 on A.J Greer’s goal midway through the second period. But Auston Matthews, returning from an undisclosed injury that cost him two games, tied it for Toronto early in the third.Patrice Bergeron and David Pastrnak also scored for Boston, and Linus Ullmark stopped 18 shots. The Bruins have the NHL’s best record — 11 points ahead of Atlantic Division rival Toronto.Michael Bunting and Pierre Engvall also scored for the Maple Leafs, and Matt Murray made 30 saves. BLUE JACKETS 4, RED WINGS 3DETROIT (AP) — Patrik Laine had his 10th NHL hat trick and Columbus snapped a 10-game road losing streak.ADVERTISEMENTLaine, whose previous hat trick came Feb. 17 last season against Chicago, had gone scoreless in his last nine games. Vladislav Gavrikov also scored for the Blue Jackets, and Johnny Gaudreau and Jack Roslovic had two assists apiece.Elvis Merzlikins made 25 saves for his first victory since Dec. 11.Olli Maatta, Jake Walman and Lucas Raymond scored third-period goals for the Red Wings, and Ville Husso made 21 saves. NHLFlyers take win streak into matchup with the BruinsNew Jersey brings 4-game win streak into matchup with San JosePredators host the Flames on losing streakDucks bring losing streak into game against the PenguinsISLANDERS 2, CANADIENS 1NEW YORK (AP) — Casey Cizikas and Anthony Beauvillier scored in the first period and New York snapped a four-game losing streak.Ilya Sorokin made 22 saves for the Islanders, who had lost the first two games of a five-game homestand against Dallas and Minnesota.Nick Suzuki scored for Montreal midway through the third period to spoil Sorokin’s shutout bid. Sam Montembault had 36 saves,FLAMES 6, STARS 5DALLAS (AP) — Nazem Kadri’s team-best 17th goal and Chris Tanev’s first of the season were part of Calgary’s four-goal second period as the Flames hung on to beat Dallas.Andrew Mangiapane scored just 25 seconds into the game and Trevor Lewis, Elias Lindholm and Rasmus Andersson also had goals for the Flames. Calgary led 6-1 late in the second period and has earned points in it last five games (3-0-2). Dan Vladar made 29 saves.Joe Pavelski had two goals and an assist for the Stars, who are winless in two straight and four of their last six games. Tyler Seguin had a goal and an assist and Jamie Benn and Colin Miller also scored for Dallas. Scott Wedgewood made 30 saves.ADVERTISEMENTAVALANCHE 7, SENATORS 0DENVER (AP) — Artturi Lehkonen and Alex Newhook each had two goals and an assist, Mikko Rantanen also scored twice, and Pavel Francouz made 29 saves for his first shutout of the season to lead Colorado.Rantanen scored his 28th and 29th goals to break Joe Sakic’s 27-year-old team record for goals at the halfway point of the regular season.Brad Hunt also scored, and Nathan MacKinnon and Logan O’Connor each had two assists for Colorado, which had lost seven of eight games.Anton Forsberg had 26 saves for Ottawa.FLYERS 3, CAPITALS 1WASHINGTON (AP) — Scott Laughton had a goal and an assist and Philadelphia beat Washington.ADVERTISEMENTJames van Riemsdyk and Wade Allison also scored for the Flyers, who have won three straight. Carter Hart had 39 saves for his third win in four starts.Alex Ovechkin reached 30 goals for the 17th season, tying an NHL record set by Mike Gartner. Darcy Kuemper had 22 saves for the Capitals.HURRICANES 2, PENGUINS 1RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Frederik Andersen stopped 33 shots and overcame a mishap in the third period for Carolina.Brady Skjei and Jalen Chatfield scored for the Hurricanes, who’ve won two in a row since a four-game skid.Rickard Rakell scored on a third-period power play for the Penguins, who were trying to win for the third time in four games. Casey DeSmith had 34 saves.PANTHERS 4, CANUCKS 3SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — Aaron Ekblad scored the tiebreaking goal in Florida’s three-goal second period.Ryan Lomberg, Eric Staal and Aleksander Barkov also scored for Florida. Sergei Bobrovsky made 35 saves.Jack Studnicka, Tyler Myers and Elias Pettersson scored for the Canucks, who have lost four straight. Spencer Martin had 31 saves.ADVERTISEMENTWILD 2, COYOTES 1ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Mats Zuccarello and Freddy Gaudreau scored 51 seconds apart in the second period, and Minnesota held off reeling Arizona.Marc-Andre Fleury made 27 saves for Minnesota, playing its lone home game in a seven-game stretch. The Wild are 14-2-0 in their last 16 against the Coyotes.Lawson Crouse scored and Connor Ingram stopped 25 shots for Arizona, which has lost eight straight games — all in regulation — while getting outscored 33-15. SABRES 5, PREDATORS 3NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Jack Quinn had a goal and an assist to lead Buffalo.Jeff Skinner, Dylan Cozens, Victor Olofsson and Kyle Okposo also scored and Ukko-Pekka Luukkonen made 38 saves for the Sabres, who snapped a three-game losing streak. Roman Josi, Jeremy Lauzon and Ryan Johansen scored and Juuse Saros made 28 saves in Nashville’s third straight loss.KRAKEN 8, BLACKHAWKS 5CHICAGO (AP) — Jared McCann had his first career hat trick and Seattle got its franchise-record eighth straight victory.ADVERTISEMENTAll-star rookie Matty Beniers and Oliver Bjorkstrand each had a goal and an assist and the Kraken won their seventh straight on the road to become the first NHL team to sweep a trip of seven or more games.Daniel Sprong, Andre Burakovsky and Eeli Tovanen also scored for Seattle, which improved to 26-12-4 — one win shy of its total last season when it joined the NHL as an expansion franchise. Ryan Donato, Alex Wennberg and Yanni Gourde each had two assists. Martin Jones had 22 saves.Taylor Raddysh had a goal and two assists, Max Domi and Jonathan Toews each had a goal and an assist, and Isaak Phillips and Patrick Kane also scored for the Blackhawks. Seth Jones had three assists Petr Mrazek allowed four goals on five shots before he was replaced by Alex Stalock in the first period. Stalock finished with 21 saves. LIGHTNING 4, BLUES 2ST. LOUIS (AP) — Brayden Point had two goals and an assist, leading Tampa Bay past St. Louis.Nick Perbix and Alex Killorn also scored for the Lightning, who have won seven of their last nine and improved to 26-2-1 when scoring at least three goals. Andrei Vasilevskiy, who had allowed three or more goals in four straight games, had 23 saves.Tyler Pitlick and Pavel Buchnevich scored for the Blues. Jordan Binnington, who trails Grant Fuhr by two wins for fourth most in franchise history, had 26 saves.OILERS 4, GOLDEN KNIGHTS 3LAS VEGAS (AP) — Leon Draisaitl scored two goals and Edmonton held on to beat Vegas.Mattias Janmark had a goal and an assist, Klim Kostin scored for the third straight game, and Zach Hyman had two assists to help the Oilers win their third straight to finish a 3-1 road trip. Jack Campbell had 27 saves.Draisaitl had his 50th career two-goal game, and has four goals in the last three games.Paul Cotter, Keegan Kolesar and William Karlsson scored for Pacific Division-leading Vegas, which has lost six straight (0-5-1) against division foes. Logan Thompson had 33 saves.DEVILS 5, KINGS 2LOS ANGELES (AP) — Erik Haula, Nikita Okhotiuk and Ryan Graves scored in the second period, and New Jersey became the first NHL team to win 17 of its first 20 road games.Tomas Tatar had a power-play goal, Jesper Bratt scored an empty-netter and Jack Hughes had two assists as the surprising Devils improved to 17-2-1 on the road, including six straight wins. Mackenzie Blackwood made 34 saves, stopping a penalty shot by Kevin Fiala in the third period.Fiala and Anze Kopitar scored on the power play, but Jonathan Quick allowed four goals on 27 shots and the Kings had their three-game winning streak snapped.___AP NHL: https://www.apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://www.twitter.com/AP_Sports