MADRID (AP) — Vinícius Júnior had his share of chances to break the deadlock. More than once, the Brazil forward was in front of the opposition goal with only the ’keeper to beat.But Vinicius and his teammates couldn’t get the job done on Sunday as Real Madrid was held to a 0-0 draw at home by third-place Real Sociedad to lose ground to Barcelona at the top of the Spanish league.The result left defending champion Madrid five points behind the Catalan rival, which won 1-0 at Girona on Saturday. Sociedad stayed three points behind Madrid, and eight behind Barcelona. Both Madrid and Barcelona have a game in hand.Vinícius played well overall and created some good opportunities for himself, but in the end was thwarted by a great performance from Sociedad goalkeeper Álex Remiro. He made three key saves against close-range attempts by Vinícius, and also saw the Brazilian send the ball wide in a one-on-one situation.ADVERTISEMENT“Vinícius played a good match, if he had scored it would have been a spectacular one,” Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti said. “He has been playing well. Sometimes he will miss, but he is always trying.” Karim Benzema and Rodrygo also couldn’t break through the Sociedad defense as Madrid was held scoreless for the first time this season despite more than 20 attempts against Sociedad, which also had its opportunities in an intense match at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium.SportsAnalysis: Novak Djokovic clearly not done dominating tennisSuper Bowl 57: Chiefs, Eagles meet for title in ArizonaAnalysis: Mahomes, Hurts set for historic Super Bowl matchupBurrow comes up short of leading Bengals back to Super Bowl“We played a very complete game but couldn’t score,” Ancelotti said. “We were close. I’m satisfied with the draw because we played well.”Madrid, coming off a home win in the derby against Atletico Madrid in the quarterfinals of the Copa del Rey, remains unbeaten against Sociedad since a 4-3 home loss in the quarterfinals of the Copa in 2020, a competition the Basque Country side won. Sociedad was coming off a 1-0 loss at Barcelona in the Copa quarterfinals, a result that ended its nine-game winning streak in all competitions. It had been one of the hottest teams in Spain until the consecutive setbacks against the powerhouses.ATLETICO REBOUNDSAtletico Madrid bounced back from its Copa elimination against Madrid with a 1-0 win at seventh-place Osasuna. Substitute Saúl Ñíguez scored the winner less than 10 minutes after he had entered the match in the 65th.ADVERTISEMENTAtletico relinquished a late 1-0 lead against Madrid to lose 2-1 in the quarterfinals of the Copa del Rey on Thursday. The cup was the only competition Atletico realistically had a chance to win as it had already been eliminated from the Champions League and the Europa League, and it currently trails league leader Barcelona by 13 points.“We are out of the Champions (League) and the Copa, but the motivation to play for Atletico remains,” Atletico coach Diego Simeone said. “I’ll always demand that from my players.”It was the third win in four games in all competitions for Simeone’s team, while struggling Osasuna remained winless in four straight. Osasuna has only one victory in eight matches overall, though it hadn’t lost since last year.ADVERTISEMENTAtletico hadn’t won an away match in the league since October at Real Betis.WILLIAMS’ RUN ENDSIñaki Williams’ absence in Athletic Bilbao’s 1-0 loss at Celta Vigo ended his record of 251 consecutive league appearances. He did not play in Vigo because of injury.Williams had played in every league match for Bilbao since April 2016.Veteran striker Iago Aspas scored Celta’s winner in the 71st. The result moved Celta to 16th place, while Bilbao remained eighth. Bilbao is winless in five league games, since a 3-0 home victory against Valladolid before the World Cup.VALENCIA’S STRUGGLESValencia’s struggles continued with a 1-0 loss at Valladolid, adding pressure on coach Gennaro Gattuso.Valencia has only one win in its last 10 league games, against Real Betis before the World Cup. It dropped to 14th place and one point above the relegation zone.Canadian forward Cyle Larin scored a 90th-minute winner for 17th-place Valladolid, which ended its five-game losing streak across all competitions.___Tales Azzoni on Twitter: http://twitter.com/tazzoni___AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports