MADISON, Wis. (AP) — Wisconsin Republicans planned to give a final push Thursday to a proposed constitutional amendment that would make it harder for violent criminals to get out of jail on bail.GOP lawmakers have been fast-tracking the measure, which received final approval from the state Senate on Tuesday, to get it in front of voters on the April 4 ballot. The Assembly was expected to pass it with little difficulty Thursday.The amendment is a chance for the Republican-controlled Legislature to score an early win in the new legislative session while also avoiding a veto from Democratic Gov. Tony Evers. The proposal’s popularity with conservatives could also drive supporters to the polls in a pivotal election that will determine ideological control of the state Supreme Court.State law requires the Legislature to approve constitutional amendments in two consecutive sessions before sending them to the ballot for voters to ratify. The governor cannot veto constitutional amendments. The Assembly and Senate first passed the bail amendment in February 2022. ADVERTISEMENTThe amendment would require a judge to consider a defendant’s potential risk to public safety when setting bail. Currently, cash bail is set only as a means to ensure the person appears in court. Democrats have argued the proposed amendment could create further inequity in the criminal justice system by allowing wealthy defendants to more easily get out of jail.PoliticsUS Treasury buys time for Biden and GOP on debt limit dealSUPREME COURT NOTEBOOK: Justices yet to decide any casesClimate misinformation 'rocket boosters' on Musk's TwitterBiden to tour California storm damage, see recovery effortsOpponents have also focused on what they see as a glaring problem in predicting how the law could be applied. The added considerations in setting bail would apply only to violent criminals, but state law currently offers three different definitions for what constitutes a violent crime. Judges would have to decide which definition to follow unless and until lawmakers clarify what definition applies to bail. Scott Kelly, chief of staff for Sen. Van Wanggaard, the bill’s lead sponsor, said he expects Republicans to pass a bill to clarify the definition before the amendment is enacted.Republican Rep. Cindi Duchow, the amendment’s chief Assembly sponsor, has said that she wants the definition to include crimes such as rape, child molestation, human trafficking and murder but not extend to misdemeanor offenses. Opponents were concerned about waiting until after the law was passed to define its scope.ADVERTISEMENTAmendment supporters have been working since 2017 to pass it. Their efforts gained momentum in 2021 after Darrell Brooks Jr. drove his SUV into a Waukesha Christmas parade, killing six people. Brooks had posted $1,000 in an earlier case just two days before the Nov. 21 parade. Wanggaard said Tuesday that the measure was not a reaction to the parade killings.The Assembly was also slated Thursday to consider an advisory referendum that Republicans want to place on the April ballot. The nonbinding measure would ask voters if they believe that welfare recipients should be required to look for work. State law already requires recipients of unemployment benefits to look for jobs. Republicans have also passed work-search requirements to receive other welfare benefits, but COVID-19 pandemic restrictions from the President Joe Biden’s administration have put those laws on hold.ADVERTISEMENTAfter the Senate approved the ballot question Tuesday, Senate Majority Leader Devin LeMahieu suggested the results, which would not change state law, could be used to back a push to require Medicaid recipients to look for work. ____Harm Venhuizen is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues. Follow Venhuizen on Twitter.