NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Kadary Richmond had a game-high 18 points and 10 rebounds, while KC Ndefo had 14 points, including a last-second layup, and Seton Hall defeated No. 15 UConn, 67-66, at the Prudential Center on Wednesday night.Ndefo grabbed his eighth rebound and had a follow-up layup with 1.6 seconds left. While he missed the ensuing free throw, Seton Hall held on to win after trailing by 17 in the first half.UConn was without coach Dan Hurley due to COVID-19. The Huskies were trying to halt a two-loss skid, as Adama Sanogo scored 16 points and five rebounds, while Jordan Hawkins was an efficient 4-of-8 for 13 points to go along with six rebounds.UConn jumped out to a 3-0 start and led 29-19 with just under five minutes left in the half. The Huskies would go on to lead by as many as 17 before the break, as Seton Hall trailed 40-26 after 20 minutes.Ndefo gave an emphatic slam of a miss from Tyrese Samuel. Al-Amir Dawes then made a couple layups before his 3-pointer cut UConn’s lead to 48-40 early in the second half. When Ndefo had another dunk – this time on a fast break that Dawes assisted – UConn interim coach Luke Murray called a timeout with his team up 48-45 with 14:14 left.College basketballRyan, Diew help No. 18 Iowa State women top Cowgirls 69-64Johnson, Bell lead West Virginia over No. 14 TCU 74-65No. 15 Oklahoma women win 4th straight, 92-66 over TCUSurging Cyclones: Stifling defense keeps wins coming for ISUADVERTISEMENTNeither team would score again until Seton Hall coach Shaheen Holloway was assessed a technical foul with 11:47 left. Perhaps providing a spark, Seton Hall cut the deficit to 50-49 with 10:40 to go after Kadary Richmond hit a pair of free throws on back-to-back trips to the line.That’s the closest it would get as UConn came away with a wire-to-wire victory until Femi Odukale slammed a dunk with authority to cut the lead to 64-63 with 2:02 left. Seton Hall would take its first lead of the game on the ensuing possession on a Richmond floater before UConn quickly retook the lead at the free throw thanks to Tristen Newton (11 points).Dawes also had 11 points.COVID HITS COACHHurley and associate head coach Kimani Young were not on the sidelines after both tested positive for the coronavirus, the school announced early Wednesday. Neither made the trip to New Jersey on Tuesday. UConn assistant coaches Tom Moore and Murray, son of comedian Bill Murray, are in charge. Moore missed last week’s game at Marquette due to COVID. ADVERTISEMENTDirector of player development Mamadou Diarra and video and scouting coordinator Matthew Johnson each moved us a seat up on the bench.POLL IMPLICATIONSSeen as a Final Four and National Championship contender just a few weeks ago, UConn has continued to tumble.BIG PICTUREUConn: After ascending as high as No. 2 before Christmas, the Huskies have lost five of their last six.Seton Hall: The Pirates have won four in a row. After some early season growing pains, Seton Hall appears to be figuring things out under first-year coach Holloway, who led St. Peter’s on a Cinderella run to the Elite Eight.UP NEXTUConn: Hosts Butler on Sunday.Seton Hall: Hosts No. 20 Marquette on Saturday.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25