A look at France’s rugby team ahead of the Six Nations starting on Feb. 4:FRANCECOACH: Fabien Galthié (4th 6N)CAPTAIN: Antoine Dupont2022 SIX NATIONS: 1stBEST SIX NATIONS RESULT: Champion 2002, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2010, 2022OUTLOOK: How do you do better than a perfect year? That’s the only real question for coach Fabien Galthié after his team peaked in 2022 by completing a calendar year of test rugby with a perfect winning record for the first time. Ten straight wins extended France’s overall streak to 13, a run that includes victories against everyone else in the top 10. But Galthié has his eyes on the biggest prize of all, the Rugby World Cup that has eluded Les Tricolores after defeats in three finals. France is the most feared team in world rugby now but Galthié has to keep the momentum going. To do that, he says he needs to make some modifications. So he has tasked backs coach Laurent Labit with improving the team’s attacking play after narrow wins last November against Australia (30-29) and world champion South Africa (30-26). “Maybe now we’ll have to use ball in hand more in all areas of the field,” Labit said. So that means Thomas Ramos likely getting the nod over Melvyn Jaminet at fullback away to Italy on Feb. 5. Jaminet is a clincial penalty kicker and has fantastic range which Galthié hails as “the longest and highest on the international circuit.” But Ramos is smoother on the ball and is a quick, elusive runner. His presence gives France an unpredictable edge to compliment the best halves pairing around: 2021 world player of the year Antoine Dupont and Romain Ntamack. Speed, craft, precision, flair. They are likely to be paired throughout the tournament with a view to the World Cup. But Ntamack will be under constant pressure from the silky Matthieu Jalibert, who would walk into most other sides. Ethan Dumortier, the top try-scorer in the Top 14 could start on the left wing against the Scots as Gabin Villière is still recovering from a shin fracture. With injured lock Cameron Woki sidelined for the whole tournament, his place should go to Thibaud Flament. The versatile Yoram Moefana is expected to switch from the wing to center to replace the injured Jonathan Danty.RugbyOwen Farrell wants to help lead rugby tackle revolutionSix Nations rivals expect revivals from Gatland, BorthwickSexton in, Carbery out in Ireland's Six Nations squadHolder France coach calls 8 uncapped players for Six NationsADVERTISEMENTKEY PLAYER: After missing last year’s Six Nations following a serious left knee injury, France’s rampaging, try-scoring flanker Charles Ollivon is back. Although he is no longer captain, now that the armband has gone to Dupont, Ollivon remains a driving force and an inspirational teammate. He has often carried the team on his broad back. His record of 10 tries from 28 test appearances is excellent for a forward and he was the tournament’s top scorer with four tries in 2020. Ollivon’s return adds impetus to the attacking game that Galthié is demanding. After 16 months without playing for Les Tricolores up until July last year, and missing out on Grand Slam glory in 2022, Ollivon’s hunger to make up for lost time could prove a real bonus. His last Six Nations appearance came in a home defeat to Scotland two years ago, so what better way to make amends for that with victory against Italy?QUOTE: “Are we defending a title or going to get a title? That is the question we will ask amongst ourselves.” Coach Fabien GalthiéTITLE ODDS: 7/4___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports