CALGARY, Alberta (AP) — Rookie goaltender Jaxson Stauber made it two wins in two career starts by stopping 34 shots Thursday night, sending the Chicago Blackhawks to a 5-1 victory over the Calgary Flames.Taylor Raddysh, Boris Katchouk, Jason Dickinson, Sam Lafferty and Connor Murphy scored for Chicago (15-28-4), which entered last in the NHL standings. Max Domi had an assist, extending his point streak to four games.Jonathan Huberdeau scored for the Flames (23-17-9), sitting outside a playoff spot in the Western Conference after winning the Pacific Division last year.Jacob Markstrom made 24 saves for the Flames. Winless in his last four decisions (0-3-1), he fell to 13-13-5 overall. It was the 10th time this season Markstrom received no more than one goal of support.With goalie Alex Stalock sidelined by a concussion, Stauber made his NHL debut Saturday in a 5-3 win at St. Louis.ADVERTISEMENTThe undrafted 23-year-old is in his first professional season after signing as a free agent last March. He played the previous two years at Providence College and began this season with Rockford of the AHL.Stauber is the son of former NHL goalie Robb Stauber, the 1988 Hobey Baker Award winner with Minnesota as college hockey’s top player.NHLAlex Ovechkin scores 32nd, Capitals beat Penguins 3-2 in SOBoldy, Zuccarello lead Wild past Flyers 3-2 in OTVatrano's hat trick, big 3rd period help Ducks stun Avs 5-3Duchene's goal, assist lead Predators to 6-4 win over DevilsThe game was tied 1-all after 20 minutes, but Chicago seized control in the second period with three unanswered goals.Katchouk one-timed a pass from Luke Philp at 9:39 past Markstrom, who was screened.Chicago made it a two-goal lead at 15:37 when Flames defensemen Nikita Zadorov and MacKenzie Weeger both went to Patrick Kane, leaving the middle of the ice open. Kane’s pass sent Dickenson in alone and he beat Markstrom over his shoulder.Just 30 seconds later, another defensive miscue by the Flames resulted in a 2-on-1 rush, with Colin Blackwell setting up Lafferty for his eighth goal of the season.The Flames outshot Chicago 18-6 in the third, but couldn’t beat Stauber. The scattered booing from disgruntled fans throughout the period was at its loudest at the final buzzer as Calgary players left the ice.TOEWS AND TANEV OUTBoth teams were without key players. Calgary defenseman Chris Tanev (upper body) was out. His spot was taken by Connor Mackey, a healthy scratch the last 16 games.ADVERTISEMENTChicago was minus captain Jonathan Toews (non-COVID-19 illness). Philp was inserted into the lineup and got his first NHL point.MILESTONETyler Toffoli played in the 700th game of his career. He has played 86 games for the Flames. Toffoli has also played for Los Angeles (515 games), Vancouver (10) and Montreal (89).UP NEXTBlackhawks: Complete a three-game road trip Saturday night in Edmonton.Flames: At Seattle on Friday night.___AP NHL: www.apnews.com/hub/NHL and www.twitter.com/AP_Sports