Nonfiction 1. Spare by Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. Never Finished by David Goggins, narrated by the author, Adam Skolnick and Jacqueline Gardner (Lioncrest Publishing)4. The Light We Carry by Michelle Obama, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)5. I’m Glad My Mom Died by Jennette McCurdy, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)6. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)7. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)8. The End of the World Is Just the Beginning by Peter Zeihan, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)9. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)10. The Good Life by Robert Waldinger, MD and Marc Schulz, PhD, narrated by the authors (Simon & Schuster Audio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)2. Lessons in Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus, narrated by Miranda Raison, Bonnie Garmus and Pandora Sykes (Random House Audio)3. The Quarry Girls by Jess Lourey, narrated by Jess Nahikian (Brilliance Audio)EntertainmentPorn actor Ron Jeremy found unable to stand trial for rapeAfter 2 virtual years, Sundance returns to the mountainsLeslie Jones promises to be herself hosting 'The Daily Show'Madonna unveils 2023 North America and European tour dates4. Fairy Tale by Stephen King, narrated by Seth Numrich and the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)5. It Ends with Us by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Olivia Song (Simon & Schuster Audio)6. Regretting You by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Tanya Eby and Lauren Ezzo (Brilliance Audio)7. Hell Bent by Leigh Bardugo, narrated by Lauren Fortgang and Michael David Axtell (Macmillan Audio)8. Hide by Tracy Clark, narrated by Chanté McCormick (Brilliance Audio)9. It Starts with Us by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Colin Donnell and Olivia Song (Simon & Schuster Audio)10. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)