ADELBODEN, Switzerland (AP) — Lucas Braathen beat his childhood friend Atle Lie McGrath for the win in a World Cup slalom on Sunday to extend Norway’s dominating run in the discipline.Sporting his trademark painted fingernails – mostly black with one yellow smile emoji – Braathen retained his first-run lead to finish 0.71 seconds ahead of McGrath. Linus Strasser of Germany was 0.92 back in third.Braathen skied into the finish area and into the arms of McGrath who was waiting to congratulate him with an exuberant hug.“It’s incredible,” said the 22-year-old Braathen, who is two days older than McGrath. “I see green lights and the first person I see is my partner in crime Atle.”“It’s a day me and Atle have been dreaming for since the day we started skiing,” said Braathen of their childhood together at the Bærums club in Norway. “I can’t believe we are finally here.”Braathen’s fifth career World Cup win, and third in slalom, lifted him atop the season-long discipline standings.ADVERTISEMENTNorwegian racers have now won seven of the eight men’s World Cup slaloms since the Beijing Olympics last February. Braathen and McGrath have two of those wins apiece.Braathen, whose mother is Brazilian, also won the first slalom of the season last month at Val d’Isere, France.SkiingShiffrin focusing on the process as she nears Vonn's recordBassino wins World Cup GS for 1st victory in almost 2 yearsSuter claims World Cup super-G, ends Goggia's winning streakKilde again tops Odermatt for World Cup super-G victoryThe American-born McGrath got his best result since ending last season with back-to-back slalom wins. His father Felix raced for the United States team in the 1980s including at the 1988 Calgary Olympics. Braathen took the standings lead from teammate Henrik Kristoffersen who finished outside the top 30 racers in the morning run and did not qualify for the second leg. Norway’s world champion Sebastian Foss-Solevaag skied out midway down the first run on the storied Chuesnisbärgli hill.Braathen won at the venue where two years ago he suffered a season-ending knee injury crashing through the finish line in the classic giant slalom. On his return last year, he stopped his giant slalom run approaching the drop into the finish rather than tackle the slope again.“Obviously, I don’t have the best history with the giant slalom in Adelboden but the slalom has been quite a good experience,” Braathen said Sunday after his fast first run. “I need to separate the two.”ADVERTISEMENTWith 100 World Cup points for sealing the race win, Braathen leads by just nine points in the slalom standings from Manuel Feller who placed seventh Sunday.Sunday’s race was run under heavy cloud cover with temperatures rising to 4 degrees Celsius (40 Fahrenheit) in the afternoon to continue the unusually warm winter in Europe.The men’s World Cup circuit stays in Switzerland at nearby Wengen for a scheduled super-G on Friday, the classic Lauberhorn downhill Saturday and a Sunday slalom. Braathen won at Wengen last year despite placing a lowly 29th in the first run. ___More AP skiing: https://apnews.com/hub/skiing and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports