WASHINGTON (AP) — Tage Thompson finished off a hat trick by scoring in overtime, and the Buffalo Sabres beat the Washington Capitals 5-4 on Tuesday night for their seventh victory in eight games.Thompson also set up Alex Tuch for his 18th goal with a spinning pass off the rush and was the recipient of a great pass on his second of the game. Thompson took advantage of a Capitals turnover to score three minutes into OT for his fourth career hat trick. Tyson Jost also scored for the Sabres.Alex Ovechkin had two goals for Washington. Sonny Milano and Nic Dowd also scored for the Capitals.Players wore “Love for 3” T-shirts into the arena in honor of Damar Hamlin, the Bills safety who wears that number and who remained hospitalized in Cincinnati after going into cardiac arrest during Buffalo’s NFL game Monday night against the Bengals. Signs bearing Hamlin’s name and the Bills logo lined the glass during warmups, and the Sabres said neither players nor coach Don Granato would speak to reporters Tuesday because they were still processing Hamlin’s situation.ADVERTISEMENTRANGERS 5, HURRICANES 3NEW YORK (AP) — Artemi Panarin, K’Andre Miller and Filip Chytil scored third-period goals as New York snapped Carolina’s 11-game winning streak.NHLIslanders visit the Oilers after Pageau's 2-goal gameBoston visits Los Angeles after DeBrusk's 2-goal gameMinnesota hosts Tampa Bay following Hartman's 2-goal showingWashington visits Columbus after Ovechkin's 2-goal gameJacob Trouba and Mika Zibanejad also scored for the Rangers, who are 10-2-1 in their last 13 games. Igor Shesterkin made 20 saves in the first meeting between the teams since New York eliminated Carolina in seven games during a second-round playoff series last May.The Hurricanes had points in 17 straight (15-0-2) and hadn’t lost in regulation since Nov. 23 to Arizona.Carolina scored first when defenseman Brent Burns put the puck past Shesterkin off a scrum in front at 7:24 of the opening period. Martin Necas and Jalen Chatfield also scored for the Hurricanes.BLUES 6, MAPLE LEAFS 5, SOTORONTO (AP) — Brayden Schenn scored on the power play and again in the shootout to give St. Louis a victory over Toronto.Schenn put away the winner in the tiebreaker after Robert Thomas and Pavel Buchnevich scored on Maple Leafs goalie Ilya Samsonov.Brandon Saad scored twice, including one short-handed. Jordan Kyrou and Josh Leivo also scored, and Jordan Binnington made 20 saves.ADVERTISEMENTMichael Bunting scored twice, including on a power play, for Toronto. Pierre Engvall, William Nylander and Auston Matthews added goals and Samsonov stopped 27 shots for the Maple Leafs.KINGS 3, STARS 2LOS ANGELES (AP) — Adrian Kempe broke a tie on a power play midway through the third period and Los Angeles ended Dallas’ four-game winning streak.Pheonix Copley made 28 saves for his seventh straight victory. He’s the fifth goalie in Kings history to have such a streak.Anze Kopitar and Rasmus Kupari also scored for Los Angeles.Jason Robertson and Miro Heiskanen scored for the Stars. Robertson extended his point streak to eight games.Dallas failed to earn a point for just the fifth time in its past 25 games.PREDATORS 6, CANADIENS 3NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Mattias Ekholm, Tommy Novak and Roman Josi each had a goal and an assist to lead Nashville to a victory over Montreal. ADVERTISEMENTCody Glass, Colton Sissons and Matt Duchene also scored and Juuse Saros made 24 saves for Nashville.Cole Caufield, Josh Anderson and Brendan Gallagher scored and Sam Montembeault stopped 28 shots for the slumping Canadiens, who have lost six straight and nine of 10.LIGHTNING 4, BLACKHAWKS 1CHICAGO (AP) — Alex Killorn snapped a tie in the third period and Tampa Bay beat Chicago for its fourth straight victory.Brandon Hagel added a goal and an assist as the Lightning won for the 11th time in 14 games. Pat Maroon and Nicholas Paul also scored in the opener of a three-game trip, and Brian Elliott made 25 saves.Chicago dropped its fifth straight, managing five goals during the slide. Seth Jones scored for the Blackhawks.KRAKEN 5, OILERS 2EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Jaden Schwartz had a goal and two assists and Seattle scored four consecutive goals in the second period to beat Edmonton.Matty Beniers, Yanni Gourde, Jared McCann and Alex Wennberg also scored for the surprising Kraken (20-12-4). Martin Jones made 30 saves.ADVERTISEMENTRyan Nugent-Hopkins and Connor McDavid had goals for the Oilers (20-17-2), who have lost five straight home games.PANTHERS 5, COYOTES 3SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — Matthew Tkachuk scored his first hat trick for Florida in a win over Arizona.Tkachuk was acquired last summer in a trade with the Calgary Flames. Florida also got a pair of goals from Eric Staal and 33 saves from Spencer Knight to end a two-game skid.The Coyotes had goals from Jakob Chychrun, Clayton Keller and Nick Bjugstad. Karel Vejmelka made 32 stops as Arizona lost a second consecutive game.ISLANDERS 6, CANUCKS 2VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — Mathew Barzal had a goal and two assists as New York beat struggling Vancouver.Jean-Gabriel Pageau scored twice — once on a power play and then shorthanded late into an empty net. Aatu Raty, Anders Lee and Casey Cizikas also had goals for the Islanders. Barzal has scored in four straight games.ADVERTISEMENTThe Canucks got a pair of goals from Bo Horvat as they dropped their third in a row. Vancouver’s captain is tied with Alex Ovechkin for third in the NHL with 28 goals.Ilya Sorokin stopped 24 shots in his 14th win. SENATORS 4, BLUE JACKETS 0OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Anton Forsberg made 22 saves for his second NHL shutout, Tim Stutzle had a goal and an assist and Ottawa beat Columbus.Derrick Brassard, Drake Batherson and Austin Watson also scored. The 20-year-old Stutzle has five goals in his last six games.Joonas Korpisalo stopped 33 shots for Columbus.JETS 3, FLAMES 2WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Sam Gagner tipped in Ville Heinola’s point shot with 5:40 left to help Winnipeg beat Calgary.Brenden Dillon and Josh Morrissey also scored for the Jets, and Connor Hellebuyck made 33 saves.Nikita Zadorov and Mikael Backlund scored for the Flames, and Jacob Markstrom stopped 22 shots.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports