Miami Heat center Dewayne Dedmon (21) argues with head coach Erik Spoelstra before storming off the court during the first half of an NBA basketball game against the Oklahoma City Thunder, Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2023, in Miami. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)Miami Heat center Dewayne Dedmon (21) argues with head coach Erik Spoelstra before storming off the court during the first half of an NBA basketball game against the Oklahoma City Thunder, Tuesday, Jan. 10, 2023, in Miami. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)MIAMI (AP) — Reserve center Dewayne Dedmon has been suspended without pay by the Miami Heat for one game for conduct detrimental to the club.The move came one night after Dedmon had an outburst after being subbed out of a game against the Oklahoma City Thunder. He exchanged words with coaches on the sideline, then angrily swatted at a massage gun and sent it flying onto the court during play.That got him ejected from the game, further depleting an already short-handed Miami roster, and the Heat used only seven players over the final 33 minutes of what became a 112-111 victory.Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, speaking after that game, said Dedmon’s actions as he left the floor were “unacceptable.” Dedmon will miss Miami’s home game Thursday against the Milwaukee Bucks.The Heat said they issued the suspension “in consultation with the NBA.” The league office reviewed Dedmon’s ejection and the actions that caused it, as is customary when any player is ejected.ADVERTISEMENTThe suspension will cost Dedmon about $32,414. He is making $4.7 million this season and has a non-guaranteed contract for next season.Miami expects to have starting center Bam Adebayo back for its game Thursday against Milwaukee. Adebayo was one of seven players, including four would-be starters, who missed Tuesday’s game with injuries.NBAMorant scores 38 in return as streaking Grizzlies top SpursMagic's Jonathan Isaac plays 15 minutes in G League gameKuzma hits late 3-pointer to lift Wizards past Bulls, 100-97Jaylen Brown scores season-high 41 points, Celtics winPoint guard Kyle Lowry, forward Caleb Martin and shooting guard Tyler Herro — the other usual starters who were out Tuesday — will remain sidelined Thursday, the Heat said.Dedmon has appeared in 29 games this season for Miami, all off the bench, averaging 5.9 points and 3.7 rebounds. He would be eligible to return Saturday, when the Heat play host to the Bucks for a second consecutive game.___AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports