Nonfiction 1. Spare by Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. The 6 Habits of Growth by Brendon Burchard, narrated by the author (Audible Originals)4. Never Finished by David Goggins, narrated by the author, Adam Skolnick and Jacqueline Gardner (Lioncrest Publishing)5. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)6. The Creative Act by Rick Rubin, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)7. I’m Glad My Mom Died by Jennette McCurdy, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)8. The Light We Carry by Michelle Obama, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)9. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)10. 48 Laws of Power by Robert Greene, narrated by Richard Poe (HighBridge, a Division of Recorded Books)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. The House at the End of the World by Dean Koontz, narrated by Natalie Naudus (Brilliance Audio)2. Remarkably Bright Creatures by Shelby Van Pelt, narrated by Marin Ireland and Michael Urie (HarperAudio)3. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)EntertainmentWill Smith, Martin Lawrence reteaming for 'Bad Boys' sequelDeadline nears for Alec Baldwin in deadly movie set shooting'Laverne & Shirley' actor Cindy Williams dies at 75Why everyone's debating Riseborough's best actress Oscar nod4. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)5. Lie to Her by Melinda Leigh, narrated by Christina Traister (Brilliance Audio)6. It Ends with Us by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Olivia Song (Simon & Schuster Audio)7. Lessons in Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus, narrated by Miranda Raison, Bonnie Garmus and Pandora Sykes (Random House Audio)8. Tell Her Story by Margot Hunt, performed by Dakota Fanning, LJ Ganser, Vikas Adam, Emily Bauer, Ann Osmond, Fred Berman, Jonathan Davis and Laura Darrell (Audible Originals)9. Earthside by Dennis E. Taylor, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Originals)10. Regretting You by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Tanya Eby and Lauren Ezzo (Brilliance Audio)