Nonfiction 1. Spare by Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. The Creative Act by Rick Rubin, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)4. Never Finished by David Goggins, narrated by the author, Adam Skolnick and Jacqueline Gardner (Lioncrest Publishing)5. I’m Glad My Mom Died by Jennette McCurdy, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)6. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)7. The Light We Carry by Michelle Obama, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)8. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)9. The 6 Habits of Growth by Brendon Burchard, narrated by the author (Audible Originals)10. 48 Laws of Power by Robert Greene, narrated by Richard Poe (HighBridge, a Division of Recorded Books)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)2. Lessons in Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus, narrated by Miranda Raison, Bonnie Garmus and Pandora Sykes (Random House Audio)3. The Cabinet of Dr. Leng by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child, narrated by Jefferson Mays (Grand Central Publishing)Oscars 2023'Everything Everywhere' tops Oscar nominations with 11Lady Gaga, Rihanna earn best original song Oscar nominationsHow (and where) to watch Oscar-nominated films onlineComplete list of 2023 Oscar nominees4. Fairy Tale by Stephen King, narrated by Seth Numrich and the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)5. It Ends with Us by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Olivia Song (Simon & Schuster Audio)6. Regretting You by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Tanya Eby and Lauren Ezzo (Brilliance Audio)7. Lie to Her by Melinda Leigh, narrated by Christina Traister (Brilliance Audio)8. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)9. The Quarry Girls by Jess Lourey, narrated by Jess Nahikian (Brilliance Audio)10. Demon Copperhead by Barbara Kingsolver, narrated by Charlie Thurston (HarperAudio)