TOKYO (AP) — Japan and the United States will hold security talks between their foreign and defense ministers in Washington the day before Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida lands in the U.S. capital next week wrapping up his tour of Group of Seven nations as Tokyo expands its military and deepen alliance with America amid China’s growing influence.Kishida will embark on a six-nation trip Monday to France, Italy, Britain and Canada ahead of his Jan. 13 summit with U.S. President Joe Biden. Defense Minister Yasukazu Hamada and Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi will fly to Washington to join their American counterparts Lloyd Austin and Antony Blinken for their “2+2” security talks on Wednesday, just before their leaders’ summit at the White House, Japanese officials said Friday.The “2+2” talks are expected to focus on their new national security strategies, released by Japan in mid-December and the United States in October, and how the two allies plan to tackle security concerns including China, North Korea and Russia.ADVERTISEMENT“We will discuss strengthening of deterrence and response capability of the Japan-U.S. alliance as we take into consideration our new strategy documents,” Hamada told reporters. Joe BidenBiden signs water bills benefiting 3 tribes in ArizonaCalifornia's Newsom to launch 2nd term with contrast to GOPBiden agenda, lithium mine, tribes, greens collide in NevadaBiden visits Vatican embassy to pay respects to Benedict XVIHamada said Friday he and Austin will separately hold bilateral defense talks on Thursday to discuss details of how their militaries can expand and deepen their operations. Asked if they will discuss a revision to their current defense guideline based on Japan’s more defensive role, Hamada said nothing has been decided.Japan in December adopted a set of three security and defense strategy documents that break from its exclusively self-defense-only stance. Under the new strategies, Japan vows to build up its counterstrike capability with long-range cruise missiles that can reach potential targets in China, double its defense budget within five years and bolster development of advanced weapons.U.S. officials have welcomed Japan’s willingness to take on more offensive role, while experts say it could also help widen cooperation with Australia, their main regional defense partner.Kishida on Wednesday said his talks with Biden will underscore the strength of the Japan-U.S. alliance and highlight closer cooperation between the countries under Japan’s new security and defense strategies adopted last month.ADVERTISEMENTKishida said coordination with other G-7 leaders ahead of the Hiroshima summit he will host in May is a key purpose of his trip, but Japanese officials said their talks will also focus on security and military cooperation. Kishida plans to discuss further deepening of security ties with France through joint military exercises. Japan’s joint development and production of its F-X next generation fighter jet with Italy and Britain for deployment in 2035 will be a top agenda during his visit in Rome and London as they seek to further expand their military ties.