SYDNEY (AP) — The United States claimed the inaugural United Cup on Sunday in convincing fashion with an overpowering display over Italy in the final of the mixed teams event.No. 9-ranked Taylor Fritz gave the U.S. an unassailable 3-0 lead in the best-of-five matchup when edging former Wimbledon finalist Matteo Berrettini 7-6 (4), 7-6 (7).The Indian Wells Masters champion failed to convert nine break points but faced none on his own serve and proved the steadier player in the two tiebreakers.He was mobbed by his teammates at Ken Rosewall Arena after clinching the title for the Americans.“We came in with really high hopes before the start of the event and I was really happy to be in the position to clinch the match and just the emotions when you win and everyone comes running at you, it is amazing,” Fritz said.“We have gotten a lot of team bonding this week and it was a lot of fun.”ADVERTISEMENTJessica Pegula put the U.S. on the path to victory by beating Martina Trevisan 6-4, 6-2, continuing her strong form, which included a win over top-ranked Iga Swiatek on Friday.Frances Tiafoe, a 2022 US Open semifinalist, extended the lead when Lorenzo Musetti withdrew with a shoulder injury after losing the first set of their match 6-2.TennisDjokovic shrugs off injury scare, wins Adelaide titleCoco Gauff wins ASB Classic in strong start to 2023Djokovic advances to Adelaide final despite leg injuryItaly to face US in United Cup final after Bronzetti victoryMadison Keys continued the U.S. dominance in the final when defeating Lucia Bronzetti 6-3, 7-2 in what was rendered a dead rubber in terms of the title.The U.S. were considered favorites for the 18-nation tournament based on the strength of a team where all four singles players were ranked inside the world’s top 20.Heading into the final, the U.S. had lost just two of the 20 rubbers they played in ties against the Czech Republic, Germany, Great Britain and Poland.Dual-Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova defeated Pegula in the opening tie of the event, while 2022 Wimbledon semifinalist Cameron Norrie beat Fritz in three sets on Jan. 4.Similarly to Fritz’s 7-6, 7-6 victory over Poland’s Hubert Hurkacz on Saturday, the clash between Fritz and Berrettini was dominated by serving.But Berrettini, who fell in three sets to Stefanos Tsitsipas in a semifinal against Greece on Saturday, lost his composure early in the first tiebreaker and late in the second to give Fritz the victory.ADVERTISEMENT“I had a lot of chances in there and he kept playing so well on those chances, so he made it really tough for me,” Fritz said.Pegula claimed the first three games against Trevisan and then withstood a challenge from the No. 27-ranked player late in the first set on the way to a solid victory.No. 3-ranked Pegula said that as her team’s top-ranked player of either sex, she wanted to lead by example.“I wanted to win because I am the No. 1 American on the team. I wanted to embrace that. I did not want to shy away from that,” she said.Tiafoe, ranked No. 19, was in a dominant position against Musetti when the Italian ended the match on the opening point of the second set.The 20-year-old had earlier received medical treatment after dropping serve to trail 2-5 in the opening set. ADVERTISEMENTU.S. coach David Witt, who is also Pegula’s individual coach, praised his players for their teamwork.“It has been an honor to be a coach of them and enjoy the time we have had together. It has been awesome,” he said.____AP tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports