TAMPA, Fla., (AP) — Timo Meier scored his second goal of the game and 30th this season 2:19 into overtime, and the San Jose Sharks rallied from a two-goal deficit to beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 4-3 on Tuesday night.The loss ended Tampa Bay’s 12-game winning streak at home, a franchise record. The Lightning dropped to 20-1-0 when leading after the first period and 20-5-1 at home overall.Meier scored the winner from in close off a pass from All-Star defenseman Erik Karlsson. It is Meier’s third 30-goal season.“I felt we did a good job changing and kind of holding onto the pucks,” Meier said. “(Karlsson) did what he does best, finding guys backdoor, and I just had to tap it in.”San Jose also got goals from Karlsson and Jonah Gadjovich. Kaapo Kahkonen stopped 34 shots. Karlsson’s two assists gave him 52 this season to go with 17 goals.The Sharks improved to 4-11 in overtime and shootouts.ADVERTISEMENTBrayden Point had two goals and Ross Colton also scored for the Lightning, who lost 7-1 at Florida on Monday night. Brian Elliott made 18 saves.Tampa Bay took 81 shots — 37 on goal, 27 that were blocked and 17 that missed the net. San Jose totaled 40 shot attempts.“When you’re kind of having your way in the game for the first half of it, and all of sudden you’re letting the other team hang around, this is the National Hockey League man, the other team is trying, too,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “Even though they might be outside the playoff spot, they’re all fighting for jobs and they’re trying to win, too.”NHLFrank Vatrano's OT goal lifts Ducks over Blackhawks 3-2Meier scores 2nd goal in OT, Sharks beat Lightning 4-3Phil Kessel helps Golden Knights beat Predators 5-1Warren Foegele scores twice, Oilers beat Red Wings 5-2Nikita Kucherov had two assists and tops the NHL with 55. The right wing tied his franchise record (2018-19) with a point in 16 consecutive home games.San Jose’s 30th-ranked power play went 2 for 3. The Lightning’s third overall unit was 1 of 6.Gadjovich tied it 3-all at 3:08 of the third period. Meier scored his 13th power-play goal to make it 3-2 with 3:37 left in the second.“We adjusted,” Meier said. “I thought the first 30 minutes of the game looked like we were a little rusty out there, but we found a way to battle back. I felt we played real determined.” It was San Jose’s first game since the All-Star break. The Sharks last played on Jan. 28, a 6-4 win at Pittsburgh.ADVERTISEMENTPoint hit the post with a backhand after a rush from his own blue line with eight minutes remaining in the third. Meier hit the crossbar on a breakaway with a minute left.Tampa Bay appeared to regain a two-goal lead 38 seconds after Meier’s first goal, but Steven Stamkos’ goal was overturned on replay after a San Jose challenge. Point, who lost an assist on the play and hit the post earlier in the second, fought Michael Eyssimont with 20 seconds to go in the period.Stamkos was held without a point on his 33rd birthday.Point gave Tampa Bay a 3-1 lead on his second consecutive goal with 3:16 left in the first.After Eyssimont took a holding penalty in the offensive zone, Point reached the 30-goal mark for the third time during the ensuing man advantage at 9:21.Point and Meier are the 10th and 11th NHL players to reach 30 goals this season, the most at this stage of a season since 1996-97.ADVERTISEMENTColton opened the scoring 2:10 into the game before Karlsson tied it with a power-play goal at 6:28 of the first.Tampa Bay left wing Nick Paul exited in the second. Cooper had no update postgame.SCOUTINGWith the trade deadline less than a month away, teams listed to have scouts at the game included Winnipeg, St. Louis, Boston, Pittsburgh, Vegas, Florida and Los Angeles.UP NEXTSharks: Play at Florida on Thursday night.Lightning: Host the Colorado Avalanche on Thursday night.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports