LAS VEGAS (AP) — Jonathan Marchessault ended a 13-game goal drought with two first-period goals and the Vegas Golden Knights remained hot with a 5-4 victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning on Saturday night.The Knights extended their winning streak to five games to remain in first place in the Pacific Division.This was Tampa Bay’s first regulation loss of a four-game trip. The Lightning, who head home Tuesday night to host Anaheim, were 3-0-1 in their past four games.The Knights got to Lightning goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy four times in the first, the first time the two-time Stanley Cup champion has allowed that many in an opening period, according to Sportsnet Stats.Shea Theodore had three points in opening period. He has a history of producing against the Lightning, twice putting up four-point games against them and scoring the winning goal with 2.3 seconds in a 2017 meeting.Both teams came out firing, scoring three goals within a 47-second stretch of the first period. Vladislav Namestnikov and Steven Stamkos for the Lightning and Brett Howden for the Knights. Stamkos’ goal, a top-shelf one-timer from the left circle, was on a power play.ADVERTISEMENTVegas scored three more times in the period, with Marchessault scoring twice and Theodore once. Tampa Bay coach Jon Cooper challenged Marchessault’s second goal for a high stick, but after a video replay, the goal was upheld.NHLFiala, Kings fight back for 6-5 shootout win over CoyotesEberle scores twice, lifts Kraken over Red Wings 4-2Backlund scores in OT as Flames stop Rangers' win streakSkinner scores game-winner, Sabres beat Sharks 4-2The Lightning got to within a goal in the second on Corey Perry’s goal. That ended the Knights’ five-game streak of allowing two or fewer goals.Vegas added the clincher with 1:09 left on Nicolas Roy’ empty-netter from long distance. That became especially critical when former Knight Pierre-Edouard Bellemare scored with 10 seconds remaining.NOTESStamkos has points in 16 of his past 22 games (nine goals, 21 assists). He also has 11 points in nine career game against the Knights. ... Vegas’ Paul Cotter extended his points streak to four games (three goals, one assist) and Theodore to three games (two goals, four assists). ... Tampa Bay’s Anthony Cirelli went to the locker room later in the second period after a collision with Vegas’ Brayden McNabb, but returned in the third. ... The Knights’ power-play dry spell is at 23 chances in a row, and they have converted one in their past 30 attempts.UP NEXTLightning: Host Anaheim on Tuesday night.Golden Knights: At Chicago on Tuesday night.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports