The world’s top two teams meet in Dublin on Saturday for a Six Nations match that some have labeled a title decider — even in Round 2.Only one of those teams started the tournament looking like a world beater.And it certainly wasn’t France, which labored in seeing off Italy — the favorite again for the wooden spoon — 29-24 on Sunday and finished the game defending its tryline.It was top-ranked Ireland which put down a bigger early marker, subduing an expectant Cardiff crowd under the Principality Stadium roof by thrashing Wales 34-10, its worst Six Nations defeat at home in 22 years.Two victories. Five points apiece (taking in the attacking bonus point). That’s pretty much the start expected of two teams who look like Europe’s best bets to challenge the dominance of the southern hemisphere at the Rugby World Cup in seven months.Now they go head to head, with France protecting a 14-game winning run stretching back to November 2021 and Ireland having not lost in Dublin for two years. The visiting team on that occasion? France, of course.ADVERTISEMENT“You can’t just say, ‘It’s just another game,’” Ireland captain Jonathan Sexton said, “because it’s not.“It’s one we’ve waited a long time for and I’ve read that they want this test — to come to the Aviva (Stadium) and try and overturn us. It’s a huge game.”RugbyJones' first test back on home soil against Pumas in Sydney6 Nations: Scotland seeks consistency vs much-changed WalesRugby team Worcester Warriors 'will disappear' after mergerCoaching conundrum, player departures rock All BlacksFabien Galthie backed up Sexton’s assertion.“We haven’t played at the Aviva yet in these conditions, in a full stadium,” said the France coach, referencing his time in charge of the team after taking over following the 2019 Rugby World Cup.“Often I say to the players, ‘Welcome to the magnificent, to the sublime’ — who wants to swap places at kickoff in such a context, who wants to leave? There are few players who raise their finger.”The shadow of the looming World Cup plays a part in shaping this match between teams who were hard to split ahead of the Six Nations. The belief that victory will give cannot be understated, especially since it will establish the triumphant team as the favorite for the Six Nations.France is seeking back-to-back titles, after none since 2010, and Ireland a first since 2019.Preying on Irish minds will be a run of three straight defeats to France since the World Cup. It is the only major nation yet to lose against an Ireland team coached by Andy Farrell.ADVERTISEMENTSexton is delighted to be involved, having been a late withdrawal ahead of the teams’ previous two meetings because of injury issues. There were even some doubts this time round, with the 37-year-old flyhalf needing to undergo a head injury assessment and overcome a dead leg sustained against Wales to prove his availability.“I grew up in an era of watching Ireland lose to France, heavily,” Sexton said. “To then sort of see the first teams beating them and then to be part of teams beating them has been amazing.“But you still have those memories from a young kid of France coming and demolishing Ireland. You probably naturally feel the underdog at my age, whereas the younger lads probably don’t.”ADVERTISEMENTOne of those younger lads is influential hooker Dan Sheehan, who will be missing because of a hamstring injury. Rob Herring comes in as the replacement for the only change to either team from Round 1.France’s changes came in the reserves, with flanker Francois Cros and scrumhalf Baptiste Couilloud returning to take the place of the less-experienced Thomas Lavault and Nolann Le Garrec, who made his debut against Italy.“We have been working with this starting XV for three weeks,” Galthie said. “We have little time, so it is important to create a coherent strategic and tactical structure.”___Lineups:Ireland: Hugo Keenan, Mack Hansen, Garry Ringrose, Stuart McCloskey, James Lowe, Johnny Sexton (captain), Conor Murray; Caelan Doris, Josh van der Flier, Peter O’Mahony, James Ryan, Tadhg Beirne, Finley Bealham, Rob Herring, Andrew Porter. Reserves: Ronan Kelleher, Dave Kilcoyne, Tom O’Toole, Iain Henderson, Jack Conan, Craig Casey, Ross Byrne, Bundee Aki.France: Thomas Ramos, Damian Penaud, Gaël Fickou, Yoram Moefana, Ethan Dumortier, Romain Ntamack, Antoine Dupont (captain); Grégory Alldritt, Charles Ollivon, Anthony Jelonch, Paul Willemse, Thibaud Flament, Uini Atonio, Julien Marchand, Cyril Baille. Reserves: Gaëtan Barlot, Réda Wardi, Sipili Falatea, Romain Taofifenua, Francois Cros, Sekou Macalou, Baptiste Couilloud, Matthieu Jalibert.___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports