ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Ryan Hartman scored twice and Filip Gustavsson made 33 saves as the Minnesota Wild beat the Los Angeles Kings 2-1 on Tuesday night.Gustavsson, who started the day second in the NHL in goals-against average (2.16) and tied for second in save percentage (92.6%), won for the fourth time in five games as Minnesota won its third straight. The Wild ended a seven-game homestand with points in five of the games.Hartman’s goal 13 seconds into the second period was the 100th of his career. He has three goals in two games, a good omen with Minnesota clinging to a playoff spot. The Wild are tied with idle Colorado for third place in the Central Division with 67 points. Pheonix Copley made 18 saves for Los Angeles, which had won seven of nine. Anze Kopitar scored with 20.5 seconds remaining for the Kings in the opener of a four-game trip.Two of the top-seven teams in the NHL on the power play went a combined 0 for 4 with the man advantage.ADVERTISEMENTGustavsson has taken over as Minnesota’s top netminder with Marc-Andre Fleury struggling. Acquired from Ottawa for former starter Cam Talbot, Gustavsson made his sixth start in eight games.After being given the lead by Hartman early in the second, the Swede held steady as Los Angeles outshot the Wild 14-4 in the period.NHLMontembeault makes 37 saves as Canadiens stun Devils 5-2Newcomer O’Reilly has hat trick, Maple Leafs beat Sabres 6-3Svechnikov ends drought with 2 goals, Hurricanes beat BluesRed Wings beat Capitals 3-1 for 6th win in 7 gamesThe Kings had scored at least five goals in four straight games.Minnesota appeared to take an early advantage when rookie Adam Beckman seemingly scored his first NHL goal midway through the first. But Kings coach Todd McLellan challenged the play for offsides, and the goal was waved off.Hartman, who has had a tough season after scoring a career-high 34 goals last season, capitalized with his first of the game off the opening faceoff of the second. He added his second of the game and ninth of the season with 4:48 remaining.Hartman, who was a mainstay on the top line with Kirill Kaprizov and Mats Zuccarello last season, was reinstalled as the top center earlier this month. He lost his spot on the top line early in the season, ended up missing 21 games with an upper-body injury, and was a healthy scratch at one point due to his penchant for taking penalties.UP NEXTKings: Play at New Jersey on Friday.Wild: Play at Columbus on Friday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports