CALGARY, Alberta (AP) — Mikael Backlund’s power-play goal 1:28 into overtime Saturday night gave the Calgary Flames a 3-2 victory over the New York Rangers, snapping their seven-game winning streak.Andrew Mangiapane and Nazem Kadri also scored for Calgary (26-19-11). The Flames pulled even in points with Minnesota for the second wild-card berth in the Western Conference, but the Wild have a game in hand.Vladimir Tarasenko and Alexis Lafreniere scored for the Rangers (33-14-9), who have earned at least one point in each of their last 10 games (8-0-2). They are 14-2-4 in their last 20.The Rangers scored 36 goals during their winning streak — which included scoring at least four in seven straight games for the first time since February 1991.But against a struggling Flames team, they could only solve Jacob Markstrom twice on 21 shots. Markstrom won for only the second time since Jan. 6. He improved to 15-13-7.ADVERTISEMENTJaroslav Halak, who made 29 saves, fell to 8-6-2.The game-winner came 38 seconds into a penalty on Adam Fox after the Rangers defenseman caught Dillon Dube with a high stick during a scrum in the corner.On the 4-on-3 man advantage, Backlund deflected Jonathan Huberdeau’s shot past Halak.NHLDeBrusk scores in return, Bruins beat Islanders 6-2Fiala, Kings fight back for 6-5 shootout win over CoyotesEberle scores twice, lifts Kraken over Red Wings 4-2Marchessault scores twice, Golden Knights beat Lightning 5-4Calgary was ahead 2-0 less than a minute into the game, but the score remained that way for more than 36 minutes before New York cut the deficit in half at 16:53 of the second period when Tarasenko capped off a pretty three-way passing play with Artemi Panarin and Vincent Trocheck.Panarin’s assist extended his point streak to seven games (six goals, nine assists).Calgary had numerous chances to regain a two-goal lead in the third, but Halak was excellent.On an early power play, Halak stretched across the crease to stab Tyler Toffoli’s dangerous chance with his glove.Midway through the period, he turned aside Kadri on a 2-on-1 and shortly after, robbed Dube on a breakaway.Dube entered on a three-game goal streak with four goals and seven points during that span.The Rangers tied it 2-all at 12:48 of the third. Lafreniere got a pass from Trocheck and put a shot on net that was partially stopped by Markstrom. As the rebound slithered toward the far post, Lafreniere was able to tap it in before Markstrom could get across.ADVERTISEMENTIt was Lafreniere’s first career power-play goal.Calgary got off to a torrid start, scoring goals eight seconds apart in the opening minute of the game.Mangiapane got in alone and made a terrific deke to get his 12th goal at 38 seconds.Right after that, Kadri finished off a tic-tac-toe passing play with Huberdeau and Jakob Pelletier, and his 21st goal of the season had the Saddledome crowd buzzing.LINDHOLM MISSINGThe Flames were without No. 1 center Elias Lindholm, away from the team for the birth of his first child. His spot between Dube and Toffoli was taken by Adam Ruzicka, who has no points in his last 15 games and has gone 26 games without a goal.STREAK BUSTERChris Kreider had his seven-game point streak snapped while Mika Zibanejad had his six-game point spree halted. Halak also had his seven-game winning streak snapped. He last loss was on Dec. 3, 2022.UP NEXTRangers: Return home to play Winnipeg on Monday.Flames: Wrap up a three-game homestand with a matinee Monday against Philadelphia.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports