SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — A 5-year-old boy who was attacked by a mountain lion while hiking in rural Northern California with his mother and grandfather has been released from a hospital, authorities said Wednesday.The boy had raced ahead of the adults on a trail in San Mateo County, south of San Francisco, Tuesday when the big cat pounced on him and pinned him to the ground, said Capt. Patrick Foy, a spokesman with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife.“The little boy was pretty viciously attacked by a mountain lion that took him to the ground and began biting into him,” Foy said. He said the boy fought the mountain lion and tried to free himself but the animal only let go after the child’s mother charged at it. “Right before she even made physical contact with the lion, the lion released the little boy,” Foy said. He said the child was released from Stanford Medical Center Tuesday evening. ADVERTISEMENTThe attack was reported shortly before 7 p.m. on Tunitas Creek Road, south of Half Moon Bay. It occurred in a private property in a remote location east of Highway 1, the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Department said. Foy said investigators have not yet interviewed the boy’s mother or been able to get access to the property where the attack happened. They also have yet to inspect the boy’s clothes for traces of saliva that could help them collect a DNA sample of the animal, he said. HealthTop US official urges WHO to address sexual misconductRepublican-led committee targets COVID relief aid for reviewAbortion foes: 2024 GOP hopefuls must back federal limitsDutch government reports 1 case of mad cow disease on farmMountain lion attacks on humans are rare. About 20 confirmed attacks have occurred in California in more than a century of record-keeping, according to the Department of Fish and Wildlife.Last September, a 7-year-old boy was bitten by a mountain lion while walking with his father around dusk in a park near Santa Clarita in Southern California. The father scared the animal away and the child was treated for relatively minor wounds.