NEW YORK (AP) — RJ Barrett rebounded from a late-game benching with 30 points, Isaiah Hartenstein made big plays on both ends of the floor in the final minute and the New York Knicks beat the Miami Heat 106-104 on Thursday night.New York pulled out the victory after Erik Spoelstra correctly challenged a call that turned a Heat foul into a Knicks turnover. But Tyler Herro’s potential winning 3-point attempt bounced off the rim.Julius Randle added 23 points, 10 rebounds and six assists for the Knicks, who pulled within a game of Miami for sixth place in the Eastern Conference, the final guaranteed playoff spot. Quentin Grimes scored 17 points, though his biggest play was a pass.The Knicks’ lead was down to one when he dribbled into the middle and fired a pass underneath to Hartenstein for a dunk with 33 seconds left. After Herro’s tying 3-point attempt rimmed out, the Heat got a steal and got another chance to tie, but Hartenstein knocked away a pass and the Knicks got it to Randle all alone for a dunk and a 106-101 lead. ADVERTISEMENTMax Strus made a 3-pointer to cut it two, setting the Heat up for another chance before Herro’s miss from the corner.Bam Adebayo finished with 32 points and nine rebounds for the Heat, while Herro scored 25 points and Strus had 17.NBAJames pulls within 63 of breaking Abdul-Jabbar's NBA recordMavs star Doncic injures heel on fall, out against PelicansGarland scores 32 points, Cavaliers beat Grizzlies 128-113James closes in on scoring record, Lakers rally past PacersThe Knicks snapped a two-game losing streak despite playing without point guard Jalen Brunson, who was scratched with an illness unrelated to COVID-19.Barrett played about five minutes to start the fourth quarter Tuesday, then never got back in the rest of regulation or overtime in the Knicks’ 129-123 loss to the Lakers. Barrett didn’t give coach Tom Thibodeau a chance to consider taking him out late this time, with some strong drives to the basket for timely baskets in the fourth.The Knicks started the third quarter with an 11-0 run, extending a three-point lead to 62-48 as the Heat missed their first seven shots. Then Adebayo made a jumper to start a 21-4 response, which included Kyle Lowry making a go-ahead 3-pointer after missing his first seven shots, as Miami rallied for a 69-66 edge.New York swung momentum right back its way with another 11-0 burst and led 77-72 after three.TIP-INSHeat: G Victor Oladipo missed the game with a sprained right ankle. Spoelstra said the injury was unrelated to the serious leg injuries that cost him significant time the last few seasons and said the guard was day to day. ... Udonis Haslem, whose had played only five games with a season high of 11 minutes in his 20th NBA season, played 10 minutes. ... Miami had already completed its season series with 11 teams before playing the Knicks for the first time. ADVERTISEMENTKnicks: Immanuel Quickley started for Brunson and had eight points and six rebounds. ALL-STAR SELECTIONSBoth teams believed they should have two All-Stars, but had to settle for one. Randle was picked for the second time, but the Knicks hoped Brunson would also get the nod in his first season in the Eastern Conference. Adebayo also is now a two-time All-Star, but Jimmy Butler was not selected. He had just 10 points on 5-of-13 shooting.UP NEXTHeat: At Milwaukee on Saturday.Knicks: Host the Los Angeles Clippers on Saturday.___AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports