SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — San Francisco building inspectors have given Twitter’s construction contractor two weeks to submit a corrected building use permit if the social media company wants to keep using two conference rooms as bedrooms at its headquarters.The correction notice issued Monday from San Francisco’s Department of Building Inspection to Hathaway Dinwiddie Construction Company asks the contractor to correctly label conference rooms as sleeping areas in a floor plan, the San Francisco Chronicle reported Wednesday. The city launched an investigation in December after Forbes reported on the beds, prompting owner Elon Musk to lash out at San Francisco Mayor London Breed, even though there is no evidence she was involved in the inspection. “So city of SF attacks companies providing beds for tired employees instead of making sure kids are safe from fentanyl. Where are your priorities @LondonBreed!?” Musk posted on Twitter, referring to a story about a baby’s reported fentanyl overdose. ADVERTISEMENTThe other option is for Twitter to restore the conference rooms to their original use. Hathaway Dinwiddie and Twitter did not respond to requests for comment. Inaccurately labeled bedrooms appear to be the least of Musk’s problems. Elon MuskEx-aide says Elon Musk had 'handshake deal' for Tesla buyoutEU official pushes Musk for Twitter's progress on new rulesNevada says Tesla's possible tax breaks stay secret, for nowElon Musk's Tesla tweet trial delves into investor damagesMore landlords are taking Twitter to court over unpaid rent, a growing sign that Musk’s extreme cost-cutting strategy includes not paying the bills. The Tesla cofounder and CEO bought Twitter for $44 billion in October. He was also in San Francisco federal court defending himself against a class-action lawsuit filed by Tesla investors alleging he misled them when he declared in a 2018 tweet that he had the financing to take Tesla private, but the deal collapsed. That case is expected to go to the jury Friday.