BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Newly acquired center Ryan O’Reilly scored twice on Toronto’s first two shots on net and added an empty-net goal in the Maple Leafs’ 6-3 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Tuesday night.Playing his third game in four nights since being acquired from St. Louis, O’Reilly scored 37 seconds apart in the opening period and the Maple Leafs led 4-0 on goals in a span of 8:18.O’Reilly added two assists and sealed the win with the first five-point outing of his career by scoring into an empty net with 1:10 remaining — and after the Sabres scored three times to cut Toronto’s lead to 5-3.O’Reilly’s new linemates got in on the fun, with captain John Tavares scoring and adding three assists, and Mitchell Marner setting up five goals. Michael Bunting and William Nylander also scored, and Ilya Samsonov made 29 saves.Alex Tuch, with the 100th goal of his career, Jack Quinn and Jeff Skinner scored for Buffalo.ADVERTISEMENTRED WINGS 3, CAPITALS 1WASHINGTON (AP) — Pius Suter scored twice, Robert Hagg ended a 75-game goal drought and Detroit beat Washington.The Red Wings won for the sixth time in seven games, moving ahead of the Capitals in the Eastern Conference wild-card race and taking another step to ending their six-year playoff drought. Washington lost a fifth in a row in regulation — its longest stretch without a point since January 2014, the last time the team missed the postseason.NHLLightning score 4 in 2nd period; Ducks lose 6th straightMontembeault makes 37 saves as Canadiens stun Devils 5-2Hartman, Gustavsson lead Wild to 2-1 win against KingsSvechnikov ends drought with 2 goals, Hurricanes beat BluesDetroit kept rolling despite Dylan Larkin getting ejected 12:43 in for cross-checking T.J. Oshie in the face. Larkin, a pending free agent and the Red Wings’ captain, had been their best player during this run with seven goals and six assists in six games since the NHL All-Star break.No Larkin, no problem, with Hagg scoring for the first time since Oct. 25, 2021 — two teams ago — and Suter getting one goal short-handed in the first period and another at even strength in the third. Ville Husso made 26 saves.Washington’s only goal came on a major penalty to Larkin, when Tom Wilson redirected a shot from Erik Gustafsson past Husso. Alex Ovechkin missed a fourth consecutive game for the death of his father.LIGHTNING 6, DUCKS 1TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Nick Paul had the first of four Tampa Bay goals in a span of 5:55 in the second period, Brayden Point scored his 200th NHL goal and the Lightning dealt Anaheim its sixth straight loss.ADVERTISEMENTRoss Colton, Anthony Cirelli and Zach Bogosian also scored during the second-period outburst, and Point and Corey Perry scored in the third. Andrei Vasilevskiy finished with 24 saves.Anaheim’s Ryan Strome spoiled Vasilevskiy’s shutout bid, scoring 6:28 into the third period.HURRICANES 4, BLUES 1RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Andrei Svechnikov scored twice in the first eight minutes to break a 19-game goal drought and Carolina beat St. Louis.Sebastian Aho had a second-period goal, and Seth Jarvis added a goal and two assists. Svechnikov also had an assist as the Hurricanes won their fourth game in a row and for the 11th time in their last 12. Frederik Andersen stopped 35 shots for his fifth consecutive victory.ADVERTISEMENTJustin Faulk scored for St. Louis.CANADIENS 5, DEVILS 2NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Sam Montembeault stopped three breakaways and made 37 saves to help Montreal end New Jersey’s six-game home winning streak.Defenseman Johnathan Kovacevic and Nick Suzuki scored in a 1:13 span in the second period to put Montreal ahead. Justin Barron, Rem Pitlick and Mike Matheson also scored for the Canadiens.Jesper Bratt and Dawson Mercer scored for New Jersey, which lost for only the third time in 18 games (13-3-2).WILD 2, KINGS 1ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Ryan Hartman scored twice and Filip Gustavsson made 33 saves and Minnesota beat Los Angeles.Gustavsson won for the fourth time in five games as Minnesota won its third straight. Pheonix Copley made 18 saves for Los Angeles, which had won seven of nine. Anze Kopitar scored with 20.5 seconds remaining for the Kings.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports