March Madness is coming up fast. Here is what to know along with some key games to watch and who’s on the bubble ahead of Selection Sunday for the women’s NCAA Tournament:KEY DATESThe basketball calendar is getting crowded. Up first are the conference tournaments:— The ACC Tournament is March 1-5 in Greensboro, North Carolina.— The Big Ten Tournament is March 1-5 in Minneapolis.— The Big 12 Tournament will be March 9-12 in Kansas City, Missouri.— The Pac-12 Tournament is March 1-5 in Las Vegas.— The SEC Tournament is March 1-5 in Greenville, South Carolina. MARCH MADNESSSelection Sunday is March 12, when brackets for First Four games (March 15-16) and first- and second-round games (March 17-20) are set at multiple sites across the country.Sweet 16 weekend brings a twist this year for the women’s teams: There will be two regional sites instead of four with Greenville, South Carolina, and Seattle each hosting eight teams.ADVERTISEMENTWhere is the women’s Final Four? In Dallas, where the semifinals are March 31 and the championship game is April 2.As it happens, the men’s Final Four is a four-hour drive down the road in Houston that same weekend.BETTING GUIDEWho’s going to win the national championship? The betting favorites as of this week to reach the Final Four are defending national champion South Carolina, Stanford, Indiana and UConn, according to FanDuel Sportsbook. The NCAA’s seeding prediction is a little different — Utah replaces UConn — and the top quartet in the AP Top 25 poll is: South Carolina, Indiana, Utah and LSU. So buckle up!March Madness NCAA TournamentNo. 8 Arizona's Ballo finds balance in basketball and lifeMarch Madness 2023: Bubble watch as season draws to a closeConference championships on the line in season's final weekMonday's ScoresBUBBLE WATCHSt. John’s (22-7) had a huge win over Connecticut last week, its first victory in 11 years over the Huskies, to give them another quality win over a top team. The Red Storm will face Marquette on Saturday in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. Both teams probably have done enough to make the NCAA Tournament field, but whoever wins the game will further help their case.Kansas (18-10) secured a big victory over No. 23 Iowa State on Wednesday night to give the Jayhawks more breathing room to make the NCAA Tournament field. Kansas plays at TCU on Sunday to close out the regular season.GAMES TO WATCHADVERTISEMENTNo. 10 Notre Dame (24-4) hosts the winner of Syracuse-North Carolina State in the quarterfinals of the Atlantic Coast Conference Tournament on Friday. A question mark for the Irish the rest of the way: The health of guard Olivia Miles, who injured her knee in the regular-season finale win over Louisville.Princeton (20-5) visits rival Penn (17-9) on Friday with a chance to clinch a share of the regular season Ivy League championship. The Tigers are tied with Columbia atop the league standings with each having one game left to play. Columbia hosts Cornell on Saturday.___AP March Madness coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/march-madness and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-womens-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25