Many governments and aid groups have rushed to dispatch personnel, funds and equipment to help the rescue efforts in quake-stricken areas of Turkey and Syria. Here’s a glance at what’s being provided so far:— The European Union has mobilized search and rescue teams to help Turkey, while the 27-nation bloc’s Copernicus satellite system has been activated to provide emergency mapping services. At least 13 member countries have offered assistance. The EU said it’s also ready to offer help to Syria through its humanitarian assistance programs.— The United States is coordinating immediate assistance to NATO-member Turkey, including teams to support search and rescue efforts. U.S.-supported humanitarian partners are also responding to the destruction in Syria. In California, nearly 100 Los Angeles County firefighters and structural engineers, along with a half-dozen specially trained dogs, were being sent to Turkey to help with rescue efforts.— Russian rescue teams from the Emergencies Ministry are preparing to fly to Syria, where Russian military deployed in that country already has sent 10 units comprising 300 people to help clear debris and search for survivors. The Russian military has set up points to distribute humanitarian assistance. Russia also has offered help to Turkey, which has been accepted.Related coverage– Rescuers scramble in Turkey, Syria after quake kills 4,000– Deadly earthquake exacerbates suffering of displaced Syrians– What to know about the big quake that hit Turkey and Syria– Survivors scream as desperate rescuers work in Turkey, SyriaADVERTISEMENT— War-ravaged Syria is calling on the United Nations and all member states to help with rescue efforts, health services, shelter and food aid. The affected area in Syria is divided between government-held territory and the country’s last opposition-held enclave.— The Israeli army says it’s sending a search and rescue team of 150 engineers, medical personnel and other aid workers to Turkey. The army said they would provide “immediate assistance in life-saving efforts.” The two countries, once close regional allies, are in the process of mending ties after years of tensions. Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he has also approved a request for humanitarian aid for Syria, received through a diplomatic official. Israel and Syria do not have diplomatic relations and the two countries have fought several wars. — Neighbor and historic regional rival Greece is sending Turkey a team of 21 rescuers, two rescue dogs and a special rescue vehicle, together with a structural engineer, five doctors and seismic planning experts in a military transport plane.— Germany’s Foreign Ministry said it is coordinating its aid response with EU partners and readying deliveries of emergency generators, tents, blankets and water treatment equipment. It also has offered to send teams from the THW civil protection agency to Turkey to help with the response. The group International Search and Rescue Germany was also preparing to fly dozens of doctors and rescue experts to Turkey late Monday.— South Korea says it will dispatch a 60-person search and rescue team and also send medical supplies to Turkey. The regional government of Gyeonggi Province, near the capital Seoul, said it plans to provide $1 million in humanitarian assistance to Turkey to support rescue efforts and the medical response. Announcing the plan, South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol described Turkey as a “brother nation” that swiftly sent troops to fight alongside South Korea during the 1950-53 Korean War.— Britain is sending 76 search-and-rescue specialists with equipment and dogs, as well as an emergency medical team, to Turkey. The U.K. also says it’s in contact with the U.N. about getting support to victims in Syria.ADVERTISEMENT— Lebanon’s cash-strapped government is sending soldiers, Red Cross and Civil Defense first responders, and firefighters to Turkey to help with its rescue efforts.— Jordan is sending emergency aid to Syria and Turkey on the orders of King Abdullah II.— Egypt has pledged urgent humanitarian aid to Turkey.— India is sending two search and rescue teams, comprising 100 people, from its Natural Disaster Response Force, specially trained dog squads and necessary equipment for relief efforts. Medical teams with trained doctors, paramedics and essential medicines are also ready, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement.— Swiss rescue dog service REDOG is sending 22 rescuers with 14 dogs to Turkey. The government said it would also send 80 search and rescue specialists to the country, including army disaster experts.— The Czech Republic is sending Turkey a team of 68 rescuers, including firefighters, doctors, structural engineers and also experts with sniffer dogs.— Japan is sending a group of about 75 rescue workers to Turkey.— Mexico’s foreign affairs secretary said the country will send equipment and rescue specialists to Turkey.ADVERTISEMENT— Austria has offered to send 84 soldiers from a military disaster relief unit to Turkey.— Spain was preparing to send two Urban Search and Rescue teams to Turkey with 85 personnel, and a contingent of volunteer firefighters. — Italy’s Civil Protection Agency has offered assistance to Turkey. A firefighting team was preparing to leave from Pisa, and the Italian military says transport flights will carry equipment as well as health and other personnel.— France is dispatching rescue teams to Turkey.EarthquakesLive Updates | Turkey, Syria earthquake kills thousandsA glance at the world's deadliest earthquakes since 2000What to know about the big quake that hit Turkey and SyriaRescuers scramble in Turkey, Syria after quake kills 4,000— Poland is sending Turkey 76 firefighters and eight trained dogs, with equipment.— Romania is sending specialized personnel and material to Turkey on two military aircraft.— Croatia is sending 40 men and 10 dogs, rescue equipment and vans to Turkey.— Serbia is sending 21 rescuers and three liaison officers to Turkey.— Montenegro is sending at least 24 firefighters to Turkey.— Moldova’s president says 55 rescue workers have been sent to Turkey.— New Zealand is providing $632,000 to the Turkish Red Crescent and $316,000 to the Syrian Arab Red Crescent to deliver items such as food, tents and blankets, as well as provide medical assistance and psychological support. — China’s Red Cross Society is providing the Turkish Red Crescent and the Syrian Red Crescent with $200,000 each in cash humanitarian assistance. The society said Tuesday it will send further humanitarian aid if needed.