This undated photo provided by the Denver DA's Office shows Coban Porter, 21. University of Denver basketball player Coban Porter, the brother of Denver Nuggets star Michael Porter Jr., was charged Wednesday, Feb. 1, 2023, with felony counts of vehicular homicide and vehicular assault stemming from a suspected drunken-driving crash that killed a 42-year-old woman. (Denver DA's Office via AP)This undated photo provided by the Denver DA's Office shows Coban Porter, 21. University of Denver basketball player Coban Porter, the brother of Denver Nuggets star Michael Porter Jr., was charged Wednesday, Feb. 1, 2023, with felony counts of vehicular homicide and vehicular assault stemming from a suspected drunken-driving crash that killed a 42-year-old woman. (Denver DA's Office via AP)DENVER (AP) — University of Denver basketball player Coban Porter, the brother of Denver Nuggets star Michael Porter Jr., was charged Wednesday with felony counts of vehicular homicide and vehicular assault stemming from a suspected drunken-driving crash that killed a 42-year-old woman.Investigators say Porter, 21, smelled of alcohol and his speech was slurred when he was arrested following the early morning crash that killed Katharina Rothman on Jan. 22. A 47-year-old passenger in Rothman’s vehicle was seriously injured.According to a probable cause statement, Porter ran a red light going about 50 mph (80 kmph) and hit Rothman’s vehicle at an intersection near the university. When interviewed by police, Porter “displayed bloodshot and watery eyes, slurred and mumbling speech, and the strong odor of an alcoholic beverage on his breath,” the statement said. He also was wearing a “BudLight” paper wristband.ADVERTISEMENTFamily members told KMGH-TV that Rothman, the mother of a 4-year-old boy, was driving for Uber at the time of the crash.The formal charges against Porter include vehicular homicide–DUI, vehicular homicide–reckless driving, vehicular assault–DUI and vehicular assault–reckless driving. Court records do not indicate if he has hired an attorney who can speak on his behalf.The 6-foot-4 guard signed with the Denver Pioneers in 2021 after spending the previous season with Link Year Prep in Branson, Missouri.