ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Tage Thompson scored his 36th goal of the season, Casey Mittelstadt had the go-ahead goal late in the second period and the Buffalo Sabres snapped a four-game losing streak with a 7-3 victory over the Anaheim Ducks on Wednesday night.Alex Tuch had a goal and two assists while Peyton Krebs, Dylan Cozens , Tyson Jost and Mittelstadt each had a goal and an assist for Buffalo, which trailed 3-2 in the second period before scoring five straight goals. Zembus Girgensons also scored and Rasmus Dahlin and Jack Quinn each had two assists as the Sabres had 14 of their 18 skaters record at least one point. Eric Comrie stopped 19 shots.“I liked the energy, pace, all five guys going in tandem and unison,” Buffalo coach Don Granato said. “It’s our third game back from nine days or 10 days off and it’s first time we felt like we got back into a rhythm.”Anaheim defenseman Cam Fowler had the fourth two-goal game in his 13-year career, Kevin Shattenkirk had a goal and an assist while Derek Grant had two assists. Lukas Dostal made 37 saves for the Ducks, who have dropped three straight games while being outscored 20-8.ADVERTISEMENTIt is the second time this season and third time in franchise history Anaheim has had least three straight games where it has allowed at least six goals.NHLFlames host the Red Wings after Dube's 2-goal gameNew York takes losing streak into game against PittsburghBlackhawks bring losing streak into matchup with the SenatorsRangers aim to keep win streak alive, visit the Oilers“We didn’t win any puck battles. We were a lot of poke and hope,” coach Dallas Eakins said.Mittelstadt extended his point streak to three games with 1:57 remaining in the second period with a high wrist shot from the right faceoff circle that went past Dostal’s glove for his ninth of the season.Mittelstadt and the Sabres’ third line ended up having a big night with two goals and four assists. Krebs tied it at 3 with a one-timer in front of the net after taking the feed from Quinn.“It felt good to get those goals in right after they came up and had some good shifts. I feel like our line did that all night, we responded pretty well,” Krebs said.Thompson moved into third in the NHL in goals with a one-timer from the left faceoff circle off a pass by Dahlin. Thompson has 20 points (10 goals, 10 assists) in his last 19 games and has a goal in three of Buffalo’s four games since the All-Star break.GETTING EVERYONE INVOLVEDADVERTISEMENTIt is the sixth time since 2009-10 and second time this season that 14 or more Buffalo skaters recorded at least one point in a game. The Sabres also had 14 skaters get on the scoresheet in an 8-3 win against Detroit on Oct. 31. SHORT-LIVED RALLYAnaheim trailed 2-0 after one period as it was being outshot 17-1 at one point. But the Ducks rallied back with three straight goals during a nearly seven-minute span in the second period.Shattenkirk scored his first of the year at 6:37. At 34 years, 17 days, he became the oldest Anaheim defenseman with a goal since Francois Beauchemin on March 21, 2018, (37 years, 290 days). Fowler tied it 71 seconds later and then put the Ducks on top 3-2 at 13:08 when he put a loose rebound into the back of the net. However, the Sabres tied it 35 seconds later.ADVERTISEMENTIt is the first time in 10 years the Ducks have had multiple defensemen age 31 or older with goals.“I’m trying to create some offense, use my skating as best as I can,” Fowler said. “We felt like if we transitioned the puck well and made them play in their own end, much like any other team, that’s where they are vulnerable. At points we did that in the game, especially in the second period, but it wasn’t consistent.”UP NEXTSabres: At San Jose on Saturday night.Ducks: Host Los Angeles on Friday night.___AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports