EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Connor McDavid reached 800 career points and scored his 43rd and 44th goals in the third period to give the Edmonton Oilers a 4-2 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday night.McDavid also assisted on Leon Draisaitl’s tying goal early in the third, with McDavid picking up his 800th point and Draisaitl his 700th on the play.Playing in his 545th game, McDavid became the fifth-fastest player in NHL history to hit the mark, behind Wayne Gretzky (352 games), Mario Lemieux (410), Mike Bossy (525), and Peter Stastny (531).McDavid gave the Oilers the lead with 7:21 left when his pass deflected in off Flyers defenseman Travis Sanheim. McDavid then scored a short-handed goal into an empty net with 2:25 remaining.“You have to win games without your ‘A’ stuff,” McDavid said. “It’s cliche that good teams find a way to win when they don’t have their stuff and that was tonight. We did just enough to get a win. It’s going to take a lot more than that to win coming down the stretch, but give the boys credit.”ADVERTISEMENTMcDavid leads the NHL in goals and points with 105.Draisaitl also had two assists, Tyson Barrie scored and Stuart Skinner made 23 saves. The Oilers snapped a four-game losing streak to improve to 31-19-8.NHLCanucks visit the Blues following Kuzmenko's 2-goal gameOilers visit the Penguins after McDavid's 2-goal gameLightning play the Sabres in division playNew Jersey plays Los Angeles in a non-conference matchupNoah Cates and Owen Tippett scored for Philadelphia.“I thought the team laid it out there. They did all the things we asked of them, and we played a hard game. We just couldn’t find a way to win,” Flyers coach John Tortorella said. “We were playing the right way. We did all the things to win a hockey game, and we don’t find a way to do it. But I think the group, through this trip, it’s been a long trip, have handled themselves very well.”UP NEXTFlyers: Host Montreal on Friday night.Oilers: At Pittsburgh on Thursday night.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports