Nonfiction 1. Spare by Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)2. 8 Rules of Love by Jay Shetty, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)3. Becoming Free Indeed by Jinger Vuolo and Corey Williams, narrated by Jinger Vuolo (Thomas Nelson)4. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)5. The 6 Habits of Growth by Brendon Burchard, narrated by the author (Audible Originals)6. Never Finished by David Goggins, narrated by the author, Adam Skolnick and Jacqueline Gardner (Lioncrest Publishing)7. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio)8. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)9. Love, Pamela by Pamela Anderson, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)10. I’m Glad My Mom Died by Jennette McCurdy, narrated by the author (Simon & Schuster Audio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. The House at the End of the World by Dean Koontz, narrated by Natalie Naudus (Brilliance Audio)2. It Ends with Us by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Olivia Song (Simon & Schuster Audio)3. Reminders of Him by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Ryan West (Brilliance Audio)4. Lessons in Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus, narrated by Miranda Raison, Bonnie Garmus and Pandora Sykes (Random House Audio)EntertainmentAt last: Streisand memoir 'My Name is Barbra' coming Nov. 7Stars at the Super Bowl: How Gronk and Shaq plan to partyNewspapers dying? Ralph Nader's giving birth to oneReview: Digital tech advances, AI spur hacking of society5. Tell Her Story by Margot Hunt, performed by Dakota Fanning, LJ Ganser, Vikas Adam, Emily Bauer, Ann Osmond, Fred Berman, Jonathan Davis and Laura Darrell (Audible Originals)6. It Starts with Us by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Colin Donnell and Olivia Song (Simon & Schuster Audio)7. Regretting You by Colleen Hoover, narrated by Tanya Eby and Lauren Ezzo (Brilliance Audio)8. Verity by Colleen Hoover, performed by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon (Audible Studios)9. Remarkably Bright Creatures by Shelby Van Pelt, narrated by Marin Ireland and Michael Urie (HarperAudio)10. Chain of Thorns by Cassandra Clare, narrated by Finty Williams (Simon & Schuster Audio)